and uh speaking of that so we've opened
up some more coaching spots so i think
that a lot of coaching spots filled up
very very quickly so just a quick
background about who are coaches so
they're like
they're y'all so we take people from the
from our community the healthy gamer
community
and then we put them through training
and they're designed to be like
advocates support
sort of your your personal healer or a
group healer
um to help you kind of figure out what's
going on in your life and how to help
you move forward
i train them to kind of work on problems
like loneliness disconnection motivation
self-esteem confidence relationships
procrastination and things like that so
if you guys are feeling disconnected
are stuck you guys can go ahead and uh
sign up for the coaching program here
um thanks for coming everyone uh so
let's just start with
introductions so can you tell us um we
can stop with
start with uh bobby um why don't you
just tell us a little bit about kind of
who you
are and and what's your involvement in
the smash community
yeah absolutely what's up dr k thanks
for having us here
yeah man good to see you again yeah
likewise likewise
uh i'm bobby scar i'm uh been a melee
player since 2006
uh and you know i switched into
ranked number 69 best player of all time
uh i'm actually trying to get back into
the game i want to get good again
so we'll see if i can get better than
69th
in 2020 i think that hugo what do you
think if i'm top 50
in like a year you give me top 100 all
the time right
yeah easy if you could hit tactics you
could do it but that's a big if because
so the melee community's grown two times
since i was big 2013 there was a huge
surge
and now it feels like more people are
getting in the game so uh
it's an exciting time to play melee
because of the competition but uh
yeah uh the past couple years i've
mostly been commentating so
yeah coming back to the game it'll be
hard but um yeah happy to be here and
talk about uh things that are i guess
outside of the game but super important
to
uh being a player in the melee community
the smash community and
you know what it means i feel like we're
talking about what it means to be in a
gaming community
in general so it's a topic really
important to me
cool thanks man jisoo
uh yeah so um i mean first and foremost
i'm just like
i guess like a community artist and i
got my start
super early on like i've been in the
scene since i was like literally a
child like 15 um which now now i'm 22
and there's like it's crazy because
growing up i was like one of like the
youngest people if not like
i'm not probably not the youngest but
you know like i was like part of the
younger crowd and now there's like i
i'm growing up like that i see like 15
14 even like 12 year olds like playing
the game
and they like quadruple like shine your
shield and they can like
like perfect frame one wave shine out of
it and it's like it's crazy but anyways
anyways um yeah like i would i've been
to like all the tournaments and stuff
and i kind of started the whole like
selling your art there kind of thing and
it started off as a hobby
but as smash grew um like all these
tournaments and stuff got bigger so
that's kind of how i established myself
cool sparkly piggy
and tell us what you guys want to be
called i'm just reading your discord
names
you can call me piggy that's fine okay
yeah so can you tell us a little bit
about yourself yeah sure
so uh let's see my name is kyle i have
been in the smash community for six or
seven years
um chicago scene for the most part i
started out
as a commentator at my locals just that
was the way that i liked experiencing
the game
um and then when i entered grad school
for psychology cognitive neuroscience
i started researching the expertise
acquisition of smash
so uh i have both um oh
thank you community experience and
research experience but i think the
thing that's going to matter most today
is that i've been working uh
directing running the scenes um
attempt at a grassroots code of conduct
for the last two years
so there's a lot of
things i would love to say or
communicate or discuss today because
i've got a lot of opinions having been
on the front lines for the last two
years
experiencing harassment experiencing
unpopular decisions experiencing lack of
support so i'm really glad to have
everybody
else here today uh to to talk about that
aspect
because there's a lot of feels and a lot
of thoughts uh
that we should address and are finally
because of the events of july
being given the attention they deserve
awesome thank you very much piggy um
tk is that hi uh
yeah ck breezy or tk it doesn't matter
uh i guess
tk's probably easier but uh yeah i'm tk
breezy i commentate
smash i've been commentating for the
last like i don't know 10 years
um mostly mostly the not
melee game like so whatever is like
going on the side of melee i'm pretty
much doing that but i do commentate
melee as well because i mean
it's just a fun game to talk about um
i don't know i've grown up in the smash
community like since you know since i've
been in it for so long
and you know things it's nice to see
change
uh from the way things were before you
know there's a lot of stuff that i feel
like
we look back on we're kind of like and
it's uh it goes even further
past like with everything going on with
the metoo movement it's just like in
general like how people spoke and how
people interacted
a lot of that has like changed uh and a
lot of that i've been able to see since
i've been around for so long
and it's nice to see but obviously uh we
have a lot more to still work on and i'm
glad to be part of
this conversation and talk about what we
can do to continue to move forward
um and make this place a safer place and
a
and a more inviting place for everyone
cool
and uh people call you hugo is that
right
oh muted hugo or bugs is okay
you tell me what do you prefer hugs uh
you call me hugs
okay yeah um i get to call him hugo
yeah cause i've melted your brain twice
and mafia
whatever dude all right so my name is
hugo i've been
competing in smash uh since about 2004
and
unlike my friend bobby scar here i am
part of the top 100 old-time
uh true credit words do yeah uh no no so
i've been playing for a long time and
i've seen the
scene grow up from it's super super
early stages
up until all the way uh to where we're
at now
and i've seen a lot of progress i've
seen a lot of change but then there
are always things that we can work on um
and so this conversation seemed like
something i definitely wanted to be a
part of
um just because i've seen so much and
especially after the events of july so
yeah happy to be here and happy to
actually hear all your voices again it's
been a while
cool thank you guys very much for coming
so let's start with this what happened
in july
because the events of july
a lot damn i don't even know where to
start who's gonna be the storyteller
because to be honest i've been on
i've been uh not as embedded right so i
mean i can tell the story from a more
outside perspective
you know what what i heard but does
anybody want to volunteer
i think about it but i also feel like
there are
like jisoo your actions directly
impacted
what unfolded so i i don't know if
you're comfortable telling me i mean
okay so i'm not gonna i'm gonna first
and foremost say that i don't know
every single story like i think we all
can
like confidently say that there was like
i mean the kotaku article was like
there's 50 plus like different
allegations i don't think all of us i
don't think any of us had time to go
through
all 50 plus of those and like do the
whole thing
do the whole like crazy wall like let's
piece all the like
stories together and like figure that
stuff out i just know
like what i know and basically
what happened was that like so i'm i was
kind of on the sidelines too
because i was actually like on a break
from social media like i was taking a
break from smash
i was just focusing on school like
artwork my career
um and like i would like loosely like
peek back in
you know like sometimes my friends would
show me things and like it's not like i
like didn't care about the smash
community anymore but
i saw that like you know
and for those who don't know me i have
my own like uh story
and kind of background that makes me
very familiar
with like you know like situations of
like harassment or like feeling like you
can't
come out with your story right so i
always felt like
even though i did make my statement i
didn't make a full statement i didn't
like go into detail
i didn't divulge publicly you know
what exactly i went through and
how long ago was that that was a long
time ago right it was a long long time
ago i was
like i said um most of it happened when
i was like
15 to 17 and then i came out with it
when i was like 18 19
um and then i just kind of held on to it
for years and
it wasn't until i saw that
people like other people in the
community you know they were finally
starting to come forward with their
stories and i think it's just because of
like
the whole you know the world right now
it's like we're in a really tense place
like this whole pandemic
like we're all kind of like in a
standstill staying at home
being able to like actually have the
time to self-reflect and it's not just
the smash community that this was
afflicted with it was uh
like i mean obviously there's a bit
there's been a ton of big streamers like
in league
dota uh i think like the quake scene i
don't i don't know but
basically there's this whole movement
now for people to finally get like the
retribution acknowledgement and justice
and um that obviously spilled over into
smash
and i saw that there are a bunch of
people finally
starting to speak out and it almost felt
like cathartic for me
like i always felt like i always knew
like especially as a woman
um and and a woman and a minor and just
like
like just a minority within the
community it doesn't you don't have to
be like a woman or a minor just
if you're some kind of non-majority
group there are like things that you
face
that are hard to bring up just like in
any other community because you're not
the front-facing personality
you're not you're not the the main
experience that everyone else has so
it's hard to get people to empathize
with that so i think people stayed quiet
but finally you know people are getting
the strength to come out with their
stories
and that's kind of what prompted me to
come back and be like
you know i've been like waiting for this
moment for so long
and i think like the way i came about it
on social media because this is how i've
always been but like i'm
i come off kind of i don't know if this
is the right word but i come off very
like confident or snarky and like people
kind of took that
the wrong way they almost painted me
like a villain figure because they're
like
they're like what do you why like why
are you painting why are you saying this
in such a like
like vindictive way and it's just like i
i feel like if you've
lived with something like this for years
you know it's like
it's like i said it's cathartic it's
relieving um
but yeah that's kind of what tumbled
it's kind of what like started
everything into this big like tumble
and like i don't want to list any names
because that's that's
we're just going to open up a big can of
worms but like there are a ton of big
commentators
players um and just like known community
members who
were either like abused or you know the
the accused
and later you know admitted to it and
i i have to say because i am
i knew in my position as one of the
more well-known like minorities within
the scene
i felt like almost like a duty
especially because i know these
struggles i almost felt like a duty to
do whatever i can to push the movement
as much as possible and like i said i
try to do with as much
due diligence as possible like i it's
not like i played
every single situation correctly which
by the way i don't think you should ever
expect
anybody who has that much burden or like
just information to be able to play
like play like play-by-play handle such
a sensitive topic
in a perfect way that if anything that'd
be that would be more suspicious to me
but anyways like
um you know especially with the whole
like cancel culture
rhetoric you know i had this whole i had
this these waves of people coming abby
be like but you're doing this for clout
or this or that it's just like no
like why would i take a year off
can i just jump in for a second so so
jisoo i get the impression that you're
talking
around a lot of stuff so like people
will say like
the movement and then things started to
happen
and you're kind of like you're kind of
dipping just right along the surface so
like let's take a step because i
actually don't
know i haven't followed much right so
let's just start like what
started happening sexual assault
allegations
of major smash figureheads players
commentators
they ranged from um outright rape to
drug facilitated violence
to soliciting nudes from minors to
actually sexually assaulting minors
there are 90 cases right now
the i think the most shocking ones were
the sexually related
uh accusations um and there there have
been several careers that have been
ended just straight up ended
because of the things that were revealed
on social media
and do you guys have a sense of like
what
so jisoo had sort of mentioned that
sometimes it's hard to speak
which i i think is common when it comes
to issues of like
sexual assault or other kinds of
predatory behavior
does anyone have a sense of what caused
people to
start the movement or like what what
happened well like
how did these elevators i think it only
took i think it only took one person
so like obviously there's a lot that is
behind the scenes that people weren't
willing to say because they weren't
uh they weren't sure of the consequences
and to be honest i mean like
some of those consequences were exactly
what you thought they were like where
you would
someone will come up with a story and
instead of people being like
oh man we believe you you know they want
to be like oh we need proof
oh you're just trying to do this to ruin
this person's career when like
you know that's that's not the point you
know i mean it's it's just like
the point was basically to let you know
that you know your heroes basically
aren't
the people that you think they are you
know like it wasn't every person
every top player isn't like a good
person and every top commentator is a
good person
and it didn't even have to be just top
players top commentators some of those
people were like
you know o2 people people just go to
your local it just
though i think the point they were
trying to show was that like you know uh
enough is enough and i don't know who
exactly did the first
first one but i know that it was
basically a chain reaction like one
person
put out a big story and then after that
it was like
just dominoes i remember being up one of
those nights i can't remember which
night it was but i remember being at one
of those nights until like 7 a.m because
like a new story came out like every
30 minutes and uh i was sitting in this
call with tony big shout outs to tony
and we just like every time i'll be like
all right man i think i'm gonna go sleep
people like wait wait wait did you see
this and then we would have to like read
another one
and um i i can't remember which night
that was but i know that
that same night i think that was
probably the same night that nairo got
outed
that like seven war stories came out uh
at the same time
and um yeah just to me i don't really
know what like sparked the first person
to do such but i do know that like it
was more
a lot it was probably like a lead by
example type deal with
everybody else who decided to come out
uh with their stories after
i think the nairo thing was the first
thing i saw like the first notable
i don't like using the word notable but
like known player
on like a big pedestal that was also
involved with
another really known player which i
think is another reason why people felt
so encouraged and like
really that they could actually talk
about this stuff because it's not just
like it's not just randoms anymore
can you guys tell tell me who naira is
and what happened with naira
nairo is well nairo's pretty much the
face of like the other side of the smash
community like he
he was any of the like the brawl the
uh smash four and the ultimate like he
was pretty much at the forefront of that
for like a long time uh he was also
i think he probably was the biggest
streamer uh for smash on twitch
um yeah if it was it was pretty him and
mango well
mango's probably bigger than him but as
far as like not melee he was
pretty much the biggest and uh he
um he had a
sexual relationship with a minor um
like i guess three years two years ago
or whatever and covered it up by paying
said person with hush money
and uh and i guess they both covered up
the story for a long time because that
that rumor had been around for a while
and then um on this said night
uh captain zack the uh other member
decided to
tell the truth and the truth was that
that like you know they did have like a
relation
uh ship of some sort um before it was
legal like captain zach's 18 now but you
know at the time i think he was 15 or 16
when it when it happened
so nairo and captain zach are both males
yeah yes okay and and so
i i guess so s captain zach sort of
said that this did happen and then yeah
sort of what
what happened after that uh nairo
deleted his account
um and then came back to say i guess
like he apologized
for letting everybody down and then he
deleted his account again
and his like i'm sure that i'm sure that
he lost the sponsor
because i mean he was sponsored by
energy that's gone
um i think his twitch account just got
banned
and uh yeah he's kind of he's been gone
ever since like we have
ever since that day like we have not
heard anything from him uh i don't think
he has twitter accounts up or anything
like that
okay and so there was a case involving a
well-known ultimate player named ally um
in which the code of conduct gave him a
lifetime ban for having a
underage relationship with zach as well
so there's a lot
a lot of layers and
uh complexities to that case as well to
nara's case as well
um and i'd say that the other big name i
got
bobby were you gonna say something i was
just gonna ask would you all agree that
like
when you get into the deed like some of
the details are kind of messed up in
other words like that that's the way
that it went down but kind of like the
way in which the hush money and the
um you know my my impression was that
captain zach had a hell of a time
um you know was not it wasn't just uh
like there's details that make it worse
yeah don't agree with that like most of
these stories it's like
there's a story and then you kind of
it's like okay that sounds not good uh
but you don't know until you hear the
details and then the details usually
make it worse
like considerably worse it's like it's
hard to talk about people are not really
treating one another with respect and
people are forcing
generally what i've heard is that people
with power and with the ped you know
people who have
called clout which we should probably
talk about they've generally like
abused their power um and people who do
not have power have really suffered
and we heard a lot about it and the
stories that came out were
over i would have to say like a 10 year
span i mean i feel like we heard about
stuff that happened in 2011 2012
so the floodgates really opened up um
would you all agree that those are the
go ahead i was just going to say so so
hugs kind of commented that it's
it's hard to share the details why is
that
um well that month when all of that went
down i think that was
probably the roughest of the whole
pandemic and one of the roughest months
that i've ever gone through because
a lot of these people at one point were
my friends
and um when you would read the details
you had to um acknowledge that
they weren't the people that you thought
they were they weren't uh good as you
thought they were
and um it was really a battle throughout
that time
to cope with that and so to uh
discuss details is to re-acknowledge
what had happened
and um that not that
not that you shouldn't right but it's
just it's just a difficult thing to
to to get into detail about and some of
it is just uh straight up uh
unpleasant to hear about period like
whether it was a friend or not
so um yeah it's it was all
[ __ ] up yeah yeah
yeah for lack of a better term that's
that's really what it is i mean it's
it's the language that you're just not
used to using i don't think i've said
sexual assault or rape in like this much
any long time um or like just
you know like things of that nature and
then on top of that it's the people
that it is uh seeing that like you know
when it comes to
like the commentators that i had got
um outed a lot of these people like you
know i sat next to you like i worked
with
i considered them friends you know and
uh
and it's like you don't expect to
oh just to to feel those people kind of
fade away
just just to sit next to someone for to
have these people as friends and and
kind of read about
you know what i'm almost hearing is like
there's some amount of like protection
you can offer yourself
as long as you hear things in in broad
strokes
but once the details start to come out
what i'm hearing from hugs is that
there's like
there's actually like a challenging
internal
emotional experience yeah i mean
it's like for
instance like me and senpai are like
really close you know i'm saying like we
uh prefer
for uh contact senpai was one of the
first people that outed
um she was a female commentator she had
a sexual relationship with a minor um
that rumor has been going on for years
uh
sometime i think it was like around 2015
um and that remember going on for years
and then this person
uh finally came out and said that that
rumor is true and it had like
explicit detail all that good stuff so
uh she has since
not said anything she has not uh she
didn't make like a tweet like a
apologize and no nothing she just
literally ghosted she hasn't streamed
she hasn't tweeted none of that um she
and her really quote huh that one was a
10-year age gap right
yeah 14-24 yeah yes yes yes yes
so um she has you know like we were
really close because like i
originally she approached me about how
to get into like commentary and i was
like oh word like
it would be nice to see some more you
know uh women faces on commentary like
let's
work on your craft or whatever so like i
would do a lot of locals with her
whatever whatever and thus we end up
getting close
um and then to for that to come out
like it was a shock to the point where i
like i had texted her like before and it
got big and i was like bro is this like
is this like really fast and she never
texts me back so i just
you know it's like a a knee-jerk
reaction you're like i want to
believe that you're not this person but
like i have no reason
to do that outside of like i don't know
blind stupidity like all the facts are
here
and i'm getting so now i'm getting like
this new mental image of you
and it's hard to like balance it with
the current mental image i have of you
and yeah that's like oh sorry no go
ahead
oh no i was gonna say that was the
hardest part with that is that you have
this image that you've crafted of this
person through all the years that you've
known
these different people and then now you
have to
uh you know match that with what you're
seeing
now and this awful person that you're
reading about and then um
it's a challenge to to to know a person
one way and then discover them another
and then having
that's that's what that whole month
that's what made that entire month so
difficult
it's just that that idea of changing a
person that you knew
um for all those years and turning them
into what they
were actually doing um
i've never had to do that in my life so
it was what was that like difficult time
bugs terrible um
because um it kind of it shakes you
because
uh there are i i wouldn't say it makes
you mistrust people it's more that um
um you had these people that you made
yourself vulnerable with
uh to to allow them into your life to be
your friend
etc and to find out that they could be
this way towards other people
it just um
i i don't know it i'm sorry i can't
describe it very well but it was just
[ __ ] terrible
sorry you feel me right i feel like the
community is like what i've seen is that
people feel betrayed
by a lot of people betrayed um
also uh also you wonder if like if you
could have done something about it if um
you know if if you had any hand in
in letting them get away with this even
though that's kind of silly
right like no one could have done a lot
about
a lot of these things that happened but
um yeah you just kind of go through
those
uh motions when you're hearing that kind
of news
so i'm hearing betrayal i'm hearing
bizarrely and let's remember that
sometimes
feelings aren't logical but
i'm i'm almost almost wondering whether
hugs sort of feels some amount of
irrational responsibility
yeah for sure but i mean that also comes
with the territory of these people being
a part of
our community so you you feel like this
is something that was happening under
your own roof
and in that sense i think a lot of us
here have been
um have felt responsible for the
community in some kind of way like we've
contributed it
uh to it a lot throughout the years
every single person here
and so when this thing happens under
your own roof
you do take uh some kind of
uh sense of responsibility or at least
thinking what you could have done to
prevented it uh to prevent it and um
yeah and then yeah even uh then there
are also even thoughts of
self-reflection like how how
you might have been uh problematic at
some point
for different people not to the same
degree but you know
it was just a whole lot of reflection
for all these different kinds of things
interesting yeah i think i think the
self-reflection was a really big one to
you because
like you know you you um
[Music]
like it's almost like the
self-reflection plus also seeing like
certain patterns that you may have not
recognized uh before
you know like you you have you're you're
like one wild friend or whatever and
like you would write it off oh it's just
wild you know whatever whatever but then
like
after everything started coming out you
really start to look at some of your
interactions with
like your friends and like man that
actually wasn't okay and i should have
said something
and so now with this current new
knowledge
that's like if we ever get back to
tournaments you know going
barred uh or sent away that like we have
this new knowledge of you know what we
can do to help
um in the heat of the moment instead of
like waiting for
moments like this where everything has
to come tumbling down we could just
say something in that moment uh
that like we'll get the point across hey
bro like she said no a bro like
you know you're being a little too like
aggressive something like that you know
just
simple stuff that could literally uh
change the whole narrative that night of
that outcome
just by making someone aware that maybe
the way that they are
acting or or the way that they are um
like you know appearing or whatever is
not uh
it's not okay what i'm hearing from tk
is that they're
in hindsight there may have been a
couple of red flags
you know yeah and and so like what are
some of those red flags
i see soon nodding emphatically
like i'll just tell you straight up as
like
i think it's not to blame guys but
i think it's hard when like you're not
like their main target
right like if you're let's say you're a
girl you walk in the venue
and like i think for some people it's
really hard to speak or hard to see
especially if you're new to the scene
but like
you know guy walks up to you is like hey
do you want to play some games or like
do you want to get food or like what's
your name and they just have this really
vested interest in you for whatever
reason total stranger
and like you know when i came to my
first tournament i
i was just young and naive like i just
thought these guys were really nice
but i quickly learned very quickly
i was like you know i i immediately
learned i'm like
okay this this is kind of weird because
they're very insistent and then
that's when it hit me i'm like oh
they're just i don't know what kind of
language you guys use but they're
just thirsty as [ __ ] so like that's
that's that's like how did you learn
that jesus
i mean they'll just like they'll they're
there's like the normal boundaries of
like wanting to get to know someone like
so
like like you know i i consider myself a
pretty interesting person
so i wouldn't i would give the best of
the doubt if some random person
regardless of their identity wants to
get to know me it's like hey we can just
have a conversation but like
that's that's organic that's natural you
know
um if it starts veering into territory
where
they pursue you and i use the word
pursue very
like carefully because like like you
know things can develop naturally like
i'm friends with a lot of these people
in the scene and like things are totally
platonic and fine
but there are people who you can tell
like they'll they'll be flirty
um they'll try to like get you into
their room they'll
they'll use really like slimy methods to
like
initiate some kind of like physical or
like sexual relation with you or maybe
maybe they'll start off emotionally you
know like they'll like try to like
like psychologically or emotionally like
bring you into like being
dependent or like them being dependent
on you and
um like okay like
like a really good example of this for
instance right uh
like the whole the whole d1 thing which
by the way
that was horrible like he he's like he's
such a big figure in the scene
um and i've like he just to give you
guys
some context like he would i literally
grew up with him and like he would call
me like his little sister
and it's just like it's it's messed up
but anyways
um when i thought d1 who was d1 and what
happened
he's just um so he's like a super
veteran in the scene and like like
hugs hugs would know him all i mean all
of us know him really well
and he was just like a front-facing
community member like nintendo loved him
he was always at every big like public
event and he's like this big commentator
personality
and like you can't go through like any
major smash video without d1 in it like
it's just
that's just like fact um and
um basically like you know there's
there's a story of him that came out
during july
where um he basically like and
this this story told a lot like he he
lured a girl
a new girl into his hotel room under the
guise
of like hey how as a woman
you know what's your experience in the
community but what it actually turned
out to be
was him using that as a vehicle to try
and take advantage of her um and like
you can you can like search these
stories up like they're not
they're like all publicly out there but
the point being is that like you know
he knew that he knew using that topic as
the opener
like that that was him trying to
emotionally like connect with her
and make him seem like he's her friend
but his end goal was you know just take
advantage of her and
there's there's repeated this happens
like repeatedly from people like that
like from predators
and you'll that's a pattern that you'll
see once like if you go over all these
stories like you know
you can't just be friendly with a girl
but if you're doing it multiple times
and
doing manipulative things like that you
know that's definitely a red flag
so can i also say oh go ahead go for it
peggy you haven't
had a chance to jump in a little while
so
i just wanted to return to this idea of
emotional reactions to what has occurred
because my reaction has been very
different than what um like
hugo and tk are describing so when all
these allegations started coming out
um all these accusations and people
feeling shocked and betrayed
i really just felt searing white rage
because like risu i've experienced so
much uh
predatory behavior um sexual advances uh
and harassment by the community
disbelief by the community you know your
average guy you tell them like oh that
guy's creeping me out and they're like
no he's a good guy
so none of this surprised me i mean the
fact that like zero made it as far as he
did without getting called out
or nairo or d1 like that that's a little
surprising that shows
an enormous systemic problem right but
but the fact that people do bad things
to each other
and people leverage a minority status
for example or
or power imbalances whether it's because
of fame and not fame
all of those things are a given for me
about human behavior and especially
behavior within esports because we have
no safety protocols
um that would otherwise discourage those
kinds of things from happening
so when we talk about the emotions of
all these things are coming out
my first was like why didn't you listen
to any of us before
you know when these things would come
out every six weeks everyone would find
an excuse to like oh well she
actually did this but it took an entire
outpouring of 90 stories for you
to like look at your fellow friends and
be like maybe i need to hold this guy
accountable
i'm not saying anybody here like has
done anything wrong um
with all of you and you know i wouldn't
want to be talking with you if i didn't
feel comfortable
yeah but like like it was messed up that
like
with all the credibility that i have
because i've never most people don't
even know what i look like
like online until pretty recently and
like i've had people think that i was a
guy for years
but like i thought it was messed up when
like i was saying everything i was
saying
and immediately because i'm trying to
cancel one of their favorites they're
like oh there's like absolute zero
credence and it took it didn't take
me fighting for myself it took me going
to my friends who are guys who had
bigger platforms
to back me up and it took multiple of
them for them to believe me it's like
what
like i'm never alive why would i lie
about this right now
peggy what happened when so it sounds
like you had tried
to speak up or things had happened to
you in the past and
i'm sort of getting when you sort of say
white hot rage
i'm i'm sort of hearing that maybe
you've been
like this was expected and this has been
going on and you knew it was a problem
for a long time
and that people didn't listen so
can can you share with us like what you
tried to say in the past
or what your experiences of harassment
were
um so i wrote an article i'll send you
the link because it goes into the
history a little bit more
than i can in the space of time we have
today but some things
within six months of entering smash the
only other girl that i hung out with at
the event at my locals was sexually
assaulted she told rto
he's like you don't have any proof so
uh nothing was done um so she started
going to smash fests which are smaller
parties that happened at people's houses
rather than organized venues with
tournament organizers
and she was sexually assaulted there by
another guy
who said he was comforting her about her
first sexuals
and you know i'm like 21 and i'm like
wow that's messed up
what can we do so i talked to her we
talked about police reports but guess
what police
are not designed to handle sexual
violence because the kinds of proof
that emerge out of sexual violence cases
are not um
have never been prioritized by the law
so for example
uh the people people like to talk about
emotions versus logic hard versus soft
proof
but in the end there are um for our
complex phenomenon there are going to be
multiple different sources of
information that are going to say okay
this is what most likely happened right
but because uh police and the law are
trying to actually limit someone's
physical freedoms
there's a higher standard of proof right
but we're in smash community here and
uh there so if somebody says a guy raped
me
why isn't that enough um and of course
you have to
you have to get uh as much confirmation
as you can
right but like we're not locking
somebody away
but if when an accusation like that
comes out we're just saying i don't want
to play this guy in bracket anymore
um so from the very first beginning of
smash
then to me trying to educate about
gender differences for example in
a reaction time and stuff like that and
people are like oh testosterone
and trying to make giant diff
sorry trying to uh make the differences
between like men and women
uh justify their treatment their
different treatment of women right like
that's
i've seen that harassment myself my work
uh i've been tried to be fired
uh since july because people said i knew
about the narrative situation
and i didn't but what can you do you
can't you can't prove that
but someone on the internet can look up
your work address and decide to email
your whole department saying what a what
a pedo protector you are
um and i submitted one story
uh in the july events i um described an
interaction
with um somebody that made me
uncomfortable because it matched up with
the stories or several other people
but other than that i have not uh
accused anyone of anything
um because i've walked through the smash
community my entire life in fear
i've never left a drink alone i've never
gone to a guy's hotel room without
somebody else knowing where i was
i've always roomed with other women uh
i've done
so much i've been so hyper vigilant to
protect myself because i knew
what people are capable of from the very
first get-go
so i i just i feel raged because
i've seen dozens of these stories come
out
over the years and i just want to say so
p you and you've been working
really hard like on the front lines of
the code of conduct initiative so
piggy's been like
putting uh you put a lot of your own
time and energy in over a course of
years to try to make a difference in the
community and
that is a thankless job and there's very
i mean if you try to make cultural
change it's a really slow uh
and yeah it's like so it's a hard fight
to fight so
uh just wanted to make that known you
know the rage is super justified because
i mean i've seen
piggy struggle for a long time to make a
positive impact and like
help people feel safe at tournaments and
yeah to feel
that a lot of people don't give a [ __ ]
or you know are critical of the work
that
um that they've done like i don't know
that's kind of
i understand the rage like that seems
like completely
yeah that's what i would expect yeah and
i would say that what i've been saying
to you just now what i've been speaking
about is
only my personal experience i haven't
even scratched the surface of like code
of conduct systemic
answers to what exactly yeah i'm trying
to say there's layers to your rage yeah
you're only talking about one slice of
it
so you want to sorry you were you wanted
to say something is it risu or jisoo
so i i get that there's there's another
girl her name is friso in the community
and that happens all the time okay
um so you wanted to say something juicy
yeah so
i mean i think one of the main concerns
because like i think
like like i i totally empathize like
with dr piggy's like with your
perspective but i think just like
like since we're on such a large
platform right now like you know saying
things like
oh like if there's no proof we need to
believe women like obviously
this is this is actually something that
i addressed um because i had this other
big talk with a bunch of other community
members like right after this all
happened like in july
um because i think it's hard for people
to understand
where a victim is coming from
um and like you know like logically
speaking
yeah it sounds absurd to like not demand
proof
um but like you know let's let's just
take like anecdotal
evidence for instance right let's say
you're a girl you go to a tournament and
then some guy walks up and like
just like touches you you like very
inappropriately like he touches your
boob or something it's like and you're
not you're not gonna have like a
camera on you at all times like that's
just like that's insane
um and like you know there's a then you
get into all the the
what's the word the slippery slope
arguments like oh she was acting a
certain way oh she was dressed like this
so she was
you know she was asking for and it's
just like no no no one ever
is you know nine times out of ten
they're really not um
and i you know there are stories
that of people making stuff up obviously
um like we're not going to pretend like
there aren't self-interested
like by the way i think those people are
even like not not to put on like a moral
scale but like if you make [ __ ] up to
cancel someone like actually
just for like your 10 seconds of fame
you're a piece of [ __ ] so anyways
like if you you know there are people
who do that and that's totally
acknowledged
but this problem the problem is still
like the systemic issues with the world
at large because
in my case i had years of proof i had
years of chat logs i had photos i had
messages i had me i had tons of
anecdotal evidence a lot of people
volunteer coming up to me being being
like hey if you need a witness
i'm i'm here for you and like even when
i presented this to a lawyer
and like you know i'm not i'm not i'm
not going to tiptoe bar on this anymore
like i was just straight up like
statutory raped like i was groomed for
years
um like they just
they just didn't care and even with all
this proof
and keep in mind i'm already putting in
the time to go to this lawyer go to
multiple of them and it costs money to
do that
you know they cost like 50 an hour so
they they a lot of them the one that i
stuck with
um he he actually said he would prefer
to go about in a business direction
because
if you go about it the other way it gets
really messy and
i'm like i don't know how it could be
any i don't know how it could be any
more clean cut than what i have because
there's literally proof
you know from free years worth of proof
but they wanted to go about that way
and even when i had you know when i was
being threatened like oh i'm gonna
leak these nudes and like they like sent
it to me which by the way were taken
without my
permission like and so that that you
know those the first times i've seen i
was in shock
i uh i called the police i was freaking
out obviously
and like i showed them everything and
they said they can't do anything
it's like what the what do you mean you
can't do anything and like i think
there's cases even now where like
stalkers or girls
girl streamers or people online they
have stalkers and like there's literally
mounds of proof like everyone can tell
that this guy's a problem but like the
police won't do anything and it's
because
police the law is designed to be
reactive
not preventative and in cases of like
sexual assault it's like that's
that's not that's not logical um and so
i think like you know if
like i said if one one instance of a guy
being friendly to a girl whatever
okay multiple instances you know i'll
use a good example
anti like he has a track record of like
literally all the women in the community
hating him it's like okay maybe we
should actually like look into that
like maybe one or two of those women are
just making [ __ ] up but like i don't
think
i don't think all 200 of them would you
know and i'm sure i'm sure the number is
greater to be honest
yeah wow
that's that's crazy um and and i
appreciate you not tiptoeing around it
because i think
you know you mentioned earlier that
speaking out is hard
and it is really hard and so i i and you
know people are sort of talking about
how it's hard to face the details and
i'm just trying to
figure out you know sure we have
emotional reactions
that want us to stay silent
but my sense is that you know when we
let our emotions sort of dictate our
behavior without
true awareness of like what's going on
that's really when we get into trouble
it doesn't i mean i'm sure we're talking
about sexual and assault assault and
stuff right now but i think that's true
of
all kinds of things that and so i'm i'm
kind of curious
can you explain to me what the word and
if if you don't want to talk about this
that's totally fine
um but can you explain
yeah so let me just take a step back so
i think part of the problem with not
talking about details is
you guys use this term like
psychologically manipulative
right so you're like oh some people in
the scene are psychologically
manipulative
i'm imagining that there's a 16 year old
kid out there
who like is walking down the street and
then it's like oh that's psychological
manipulation like no one knows what this
looks like no one knows what it feels
like
right like if we listen to jesus it's
sort of like oh like i think about
myself as an
inherently interesting person and so
when people come up to me
i think part of the problem with
glossing over details is that
no one has known what this looks like
and the more explicit we make things
like tk saying hey they're like actually
red flags
which no one knew were red flags and why
is that i think it's
probably because some things are not
explicit
and so can you tell us if you feel
comfortable
what grooming looks like
yeah i mean like i said my story is like
all out on the table
um it's not it is always hard to talk
about it so
like again like if anybody if you're
ever facing the situation where
somebody's like you can see it happening
like i would
try to be as understanding towards them
as possible and that all being said like
you know in my case in a lot of these
cases frankly it's
pretty obvious um and it starts with
it starts with the power imbalances for
sure
uh like if you're to just isolate even
just like the ages
of a lot of things like with my dude
he's like 10 years older than me
um and like you know and puppet's case
does the same thing
and like in all in almost all these
cases it starts off with like an age
difference and
with an age difference there comes like
a like a mentality difference too
obviously like you know one person's an
adult or should be
and the other person is literally a
child and
you know in no case should you ever
expect
the child or the younger one to make the
right decisions
you know they're they're they're
impressionable they're young that's
that's literally by definition what a
child
is and you know people
with predatory mindsets they seek out
people who are easily manipulated
and that that tends to be children um
and like you know if you
start off with like just a really
obvious fact like that and then you get
a bunch of other factors going into like
let's say
let's say two people are the same age in
the smash community okay but then one
person has
like a hundred thousand followers and
then the other one
is like literally a newbie but the other
one's a girl
and like you know the person with 100
000 followers they
they're like oh i want to like i want to
have sex with her
and it's just like like they'll they'll
do everything they
can to this is how you can tell
someone's
manipulative they'll do everything they
can to write up to that certain line
where everything's okay but as soon as
they realize they can't get what they
want
they just they skirt okay now some
people
and these are usually the people who do
get caught right they'll if they're not
smart about it they'll skirt that line
they'll trip and then they'll do
something bad
and then they'll get caught and they'll
face the punishments logically right you
know that you would think that happened
unfortunately
a lot of times it actually doesn't
happen but the smart manipulators
they'll always ride that line
and again that's another reason why that
it's been so
hard for people to call these things out
even like me from my position where i
have like literally heard so many rumors
i think all of us have
it's because we they've like they these
big people
are smart enough to skirt that line
where anything that they're doing
they choose victims who they know are
never going to speak out or don't have
impact or like we won't believe them
right
and they'll always choose to do their
actions outside of the public eye
or in a way where it's very ambiguous
and
they could just feign ignorance and get
away with it
and i'll say in like the particular case
of like grooming
like you know like if you're if you're a
child
and like someone's taking advantage of
you um
it's really hard for the child to know
that especially
like in my case i was a runaway like i
literally was like
i had i almost had like no choice but to
interact with the people that i was with
um and it was hard for me to separate
somebody just caring for me versus like
them trying to take advantage of me
because i didn't i couldn't really tell
the difference like in a lot of ways
like oh they are doing this nice thing
for me but then
you know is it really nice if they're
trying they're doing it to get something
in return
um and i mean the obvious answer to that
is no i i hope
i hope you all know that so
yeah i'm sorry i i just wanted to i
wanted to ask you to be
and let me know if this is not okay but
i wanted you to i wanted to ask you to
be more specific because once again
you're talking about
you know you can't tell the difference
between caring yeah go ahead
okay screamed when i was 14 by an 18
year old guy and the way it started out
was a friend
introduced us and she was like hey you
both like video games so we
chat on aim about video games and at
some point he's like do you have a crush
on anybody
and so we would talk about crushes and a
girl he liked at school and then he
showed me a picture of the girl he liked
at school
and he's like uh do you think she's
pretty and i'm like yeah she's really
pretty
uh she's also got really big boobs and
he's like oh i wondered if he would say
something about that
so then suddenly it was okay for us to
talk about boob and then
eventually it got to the point where it
was okay for us to talk about do we have
do we masturbate
do we have sex do we uh and then it got
to the point where he's like well what
does your body look like
you know are you comfortable in yourself
and sometimes he would do it in very
slimy ways so he would say
oh god i just hate the way my chest
looks like can you tell me if this is
normal and he'd send me a picture of his
chest
and it'd be like oh yeah you're fine
like
and so now i'm used to seeing a guy's
chest when i'm 14 years old
in my am inbox right like these things
happen
the whole grooming itself is slow
eroding of boundaries
so if you just walked up to a kid and
you like lift your shirt up and said
does my chest look normal
they're gonna like have a fear response
right but grooming specifically
is the act of of taking that fear away
trying to make somebody safe
and until their boundaries are gone and
then you can then you can have sex with
them if you want right because they
don't they think oh i'm special
we have a special relationship we've
talked about this for a long time
this person doesn't want to hurt me and
then they just fall for it
um and that that's not the fault of any
child that's the fault of the adult that
that does those manipulative things so
if you're a kid 14 15 16 whatever and
somebody way more famous than you
starts taking an interest or just
remember your boundaries
you have to remember um what does this
person stand to gain from b
um and of course you never want to think
that about somebody you're talking to
you want to think that they're good and
they like you right um
but we also should be aware that not
everybody's good
thanks a lot for sharing that um but
yeah i think that's sort of exactly what
i was kind of looking for because i
think that clearly
demonstrates i like the way that you
sort of talk about
eroding the boundaries um
and sort of in a gradual way we sort of
heard that from g suit ii about
you know sort of like a gradual process
um
also like i mean i'm i'm hearing this
theme of power come up a lot like jesus
was saying that
you were saying that like you know you
sort of literally didn't have anyone
else
and so yeah
i mean i i'm forgive me for like
stepping around so much because
in my case like the story is literally
it's literally years long
so like you know in the like like dr dr
piggy described um it's like they get
you to trust them
and for me that took years because like
this person
they they only ever wanted they only
they only they painted it like they only
ever wanted to be friends but they were
so
friendly to the point where it was like
you know clearly something else is going
on and it's weird like we would talk
like every day
and it would just be about like
interesting normal stuff like at the
time like i was really into smash and
like i'd be like
hey can you help me with the game and
like that's kind of how it started off
and we would talk about like game
mechanics we were both really into art
i would like talk about art with them so
it's like we're just
friends um but like slowly over the
years
uh you know things would get weird we're
like you know they're like oh i have
feelings for you and i'm like
okay well i i don't know what to do
about that and at this point like i'm
already like
i i was already i already ran away um so
i was like stuck living with them in
like the sky house
um and that was basically
um so you ran away and you were living
with this person
yeah so like i started talking to them
when i was 15
and like at the time like i just i was
like
super miserable at home um and i just
like needed a way out basically
and they offered me a way out they're
like hey do you want to move in with me
and my friends at this like big house
and like just like pursue your dreams
because all i want to do is art
that's like that's that's how i got to
know them right i got to get to know
them through games and art and we're
like yeah we can work on this big
project together it'll be great
i'm like okay cool so i just like i
straight up like
dropped out of high school um and i was
like i just ran away
with them um and like my
uh like my
my family and stuff they they they
talked to my abuser and they were under
the guise that it was like some sort of
internship or something so that's that's
how my family stayed out of it but like
my family's so aloof
with me that like they like they really
don't give a [ __ ] about what i do
so um like that's how i got away with it
and so i'm living with this person and
like like i said it starts off
we start off very friendly uh but the
friendly interactions were so
consistent and like he had such like a
vested like like
interest in just paying attention to me
that that in itself is strange right
um but again he would never do anything
to cross the line
so kind of how it evolved is that
once he like came forward to me that he
had feelings um
and like i was younger and like i had
feelings for him too i was like very
impressionable and like this person's
paying a lot of attention to me
and they're like really good at this
game and the scene that like and they're
all
he's friends with like all these higher
up players and like they're all super
good and wow like
you know i thought it was really cool at
the time um
like that's that's kind of like how i
like felt like i got like really like
infatuated with it almost
and um like
i'm trying i'm trying to be specific but
also like i said there's just like so
be as vague as you want to don't worry
about it keep going i mean like
just let's just let's just like
basically when he when he started to get
like sexual with it i was like
at that point i was already reeled in
like i was already gonna say yes
so like he had done his part to make
sure i trusted him
and before any of this actually happened
to this is a really important thing
um he made sure that i was isolated from
everyone else
in my life like when we lived there he
immediately from the bat like when we
like once we moved in and got to know
everybody he told me behind my
behind everyone's back he's like hey i
don't like these people
don't get close to them like he just
straight up said that
and so you know me only knowing him i
was like i just
i just trusted him so i mean i always
thought that was suspicious but at the
same time i had like no one else there
because
you know it's a sky house and like the
other big guy who's in power there is
also
very sus and i also felt that
immediately after that very suspicious
um like i don't know if you've heard of
all the sky stuff
like sky williams he's taken
long totaling over like two hundred
thousand dollars i know
skye is skye has come on the stream
several times
so i know skye williams well but he's
from uh
you might want to do some digging you
don't have to dig far
anyways like he
he just like i just had these two
suspicious figures to go to but i'm
gonna trust the one that i've known way
longer obviously and i was really good
friends with
um and like he wanted to get sexual with
it so i just like did whatever he wanted
pretty much
and um like it
it was only after like and i didn't know
any better
like like i said i was a really
misguided youth
who like just really all i wanted to do
was draw so like as long as i got to do
that i
really didn't give a [ __ ] but as i got
older as an adult
and when things were starting to go
south between us
i like realized you know this person
doesn't care about me
they only did all these things to take
advantage advantage of me
um and when i thought that you know they
really cared and i think this is kind of
the feeling we're all getting from
hearing all these stories about these
people because they're almost like
family members to us at this point it's
like hearing like your family
do something really shitty and you just
can't believe it like this person
when we ran like this business together
that's another reason why i stayed with
him for so long like
when it came down to it he refused to
like
split anything evenly with me and that
even included like all my artwork the
money
like the the resources like the
inventory all of that he
insisted that it was because of him that
i was able to do everything
that we had done i was like that was the
last draw i was like okay this guy
is a piece of [ __ ] like i can't believe
i trusted him
that like you know he's finally showing
his true colors um
and like after years and years of being
like quote-unquote best friends you know
it's hard to erode that
like that that really was everything
that needed to be said
and even worse came came all the
troubles when i would try to like
basically get him to admit to what he
did you know like he
he made sure that i was manipulated into
not
telling anybody about anything until i
was legal so that he wouldn't
face any like actual legal repercussions
which again like i want to say he like
he knows the line like he knows that if
any of this got out if there's any proof
of him doing anything while in the minor
he's [ __ ] so he does everything he can
to get me to shut up and make sure that
he doesn't have anything
um on him you know just like how like
nairo is giving captain zach two
thousand dollars a month to have him not
saying anything you know because the
all these guys these guys that's what
i'm talking about manipulation and
grooming is like they know what they're
doing
they know the laws they know what the
consequences are
and they're going to do everything in
their power to make sure that they don't
face them
wow that's that's really helpful thank
you for sharing all that i
i'm kind of noticing
in a weird way i like i think it's
interesting what what i'm hearing here
so
you know there's isolation i'm i'm just
trying to
so let me just take a step back so part
of the reason that i was really
um in a sense excited although it's a
weird word to use in this context
to have this conversation with you folks
is because
i don't know how things change
and in my experience if you want
something to change you have to
understand it first you have to know
what it looks like
like if i want to diagnose covid in
someone i have to know what the symptoms
of kovit are
and the fact that that the metoo
movement is so widespread not just in
the gaming community it feels like the
gaming community was lagging behind like
the rest of the world in some ways
but the fact that it's so widespread in
systemic
makes me think that like this is still
going on
a bunch of people getting outed in like
one wave
like people will have calmed down but i
think like
within a few months or a year or two
like this is gonna
come up again because i don't think
there's been a purge
but there hasn't been like any kind of
systemic
change that's happened yet maybe that's
what piggy's been trying to do with the
code of conduct or something like that
and so my approach is to try to like
like what we do on stream is try to
educate people and help them understand
like what are they looking for or what
are they looking
at and and the reason that i was i
really appreciate what you guys shared
is because i'm noticing like now a
pattern right so if i'm like a 17 year
old kid
who is started streaming on twitch and
then a group of people like reach out to
me
and then like what are the things that i
like what are the check
boxes right that that this person that
tries to isolate you that they erode
your boundaries and like literally what
is that
what does that look like that looks that
looks like they never do anything wrong
if they did a little bit more it would
be wrong but they never really do
anything wrong yeah and that at least
huh at least at least they're really
smart ones
yeah i think my situation took so long
because
he literally played everything correctly
like like i said the law looked at the
situation
and anybody who knows what happened they
we all kind of looked at it we're like
wow
you really just got played and that's
kind of how you feel
after all this yeah so so that i think
brings up
another really good point which is that
from the
perspective of the person who's getting
groomed
i'm noticing that there's a lot of
really authentic
feeling of caring both ways this person
really cares about me
and i really care about them we're
important to each other right
and even in retrospect it may
feel false but in that moment i can
imagine that it feels like really really
caring i'm noticing there's also like a
certain amount of like unyieldingness
on the part of the person who's doing
the grooming
right it's like subtle and it's covered
in velvet but it's like
made of iron that there's some things
that they're very very like
harsh or strict about don't become
friends with anyone else in the house
yeah you know yeah um
and then i think the other thing that
you know just in terms of a red flag is
like
things that are done in secret
right and like like i'm just trying to
envision like if i were trying to
educate i have two daughters and if i
was trying to educate them
about like what to look out for you know
it's going to be someone who tries to
isolate you that you care about
that you feel like cares about you and
that they ask you to do things in secret
and it's your special secret it's not
just it other people wouldn't understand
exactly and and so if you find yourself
having those kinds of thoughts
like oh i know that this looks bad but
this is different
because they really care about
like there's a part where i think huh go
ahead
bobby i was just gonna say the other
thing is that a lot of these people were
pretty well respected and trusted in the
scene
so to an outside observer they looked
like trustworthy people
um and that that to me feels like it's
particular that makes it even harder
uh yeah right yeah i also want to point
out
um another sign to look out for
is an unreasonable amount of investment
in the person
where uh you have to ask yourself why
is all this investment going into me
don't you have other friends don't you
have other people that like they isolate
themselves
too and uh to the point where it just
doesn't make sense how
this brand new relationship and they i
guess they try to convince you that this
is different
from the outside world when really
if you're just like a a nice caring
person you should have that relationship
with several people
in my opinion in some abuse
relationship conversations you call it a
love bomb when they just
100 focus on you and the relationship
escalates super quick
um and you don't have time to think
about is this right
am i comfortable yeah
yeah that's really help
i i i just wanted to kind of offer a
perspective i've been thinking about a
lot uh you know it has
your dr k you you're just asking about
uh what you say to your daughters i mean
your
your duty your responsibility is to them
for us you know we feel i think all of
us feel
responsibility towards the community
more broadly one of the things that i
thought about a lot is just
the environment and in the past
like i remember we had a show at the
twitch office where people who were
under age were
oh maybe it wasn't at the twitch office
maybe it was somewhere else but
people were around booze and they were
not old enough and there
were people there who were old enough to
know that that was a problem but we
didn't say anything
um i feel that one of the things that
helped us change the culture for the
better in the past is when
people felt comfortable saying that they
felt uncomfortable with something
and one of the things that this is
highlighted for me is that
there could be yellow flags going on
that we don't that i don't it doesn't
i don't have the awareness to say yet
and then i'm developing that but the
awareness to say
hey who's in charge here because like
we're doing something messed up and like
i want to know that whoever's in charge
of this get-together is responsible for
making sure that people who are minors
uh are like not making bad decisions
i feel that one of the things that we
could do to help
is just get people better connected um
because
it feels hard to me to to feel like our
solution is to help educate minors you
know it's like
i want to be able to talk to people who
are like top players and be able to hear
from them or i want them to have people
they can talk to when they're saying
like hey i'm feeling weird i'm doing
some [ __ ] you know what i mean like
a lot of this stuff i have to imagine
happened without people really talking
about
what was going on at all you know
there's like so much secrecy and
i've been thinking about the environment
that allows that kind of secrecy
where things are just in sight but
nobody knows quite what's behind
that story right we're talking about
rumors that have been around
go ahead i'm just saying you bring up
the great
point that we want to find somebody
that our community is missing someone
who's responsible right who do you go to
at the party that's
that's like we don't allow an 18 year
old um is it the tournament organizer
they're probably pretty busy right now
trying to do pools and running things
right
yes um like who is responsible for
looking out for a minor who is
responsible for
checking ids or seeing who people go
home with
um and i think there's something
interesting about the history of smash
the fact that we've been grassroots
means that we haven't had the kind of
company funding
or um uh adults who could come in and do
that
that job right there hasn't been anybody
looking out for anybody's safety
um and and that's led to a lot of what
we've seen
uh a lot of people that's messed up in
the first place right that we have
environments that people can come in
where
there really isn't no one's thinking
about it like yeah that's you got a wild
wild west going on there's going to be
some problems
in the in the saloon i don't know if
that was the right word
yeah so i mean what are you guys
any other thoughts i mean we've been
talking for a little while we've focused
uh i've noticed hugs and tk have been up
yeah go ahead bobby
the the two things that shook me number
one i feel i was very naive
about power i think it that cloud thing
like i thought that was a meme and
people just talk about it whatever
um seriously i mean jesus do you
remember we had a long conversation
where i was like i don't
i feel like i have no clout you were
like are you kidding me i don't i
don't understand cloud i have a blind
spot towards it but
the ways that people who have it can
the the privileges that they have and
their ability to manipulate
that has really uh impacted me and i've
thought a lot about it
the second thing that's shaken me is
that
some people a lot of people in in this
kind of you know this
me too wave they have been predators
right like i feel empathy for people who
slip
up and make a mistake i definitely do
because
sometimes [ __ ] happens and we make bad
decisions we're not proud of but
being a predator is different than that
being a predator implies intentionality
it implies
a lot that's not a crime of passion sort
of thing and
uh at minimum i feel that if we can
ha if we can create an environment where
at minimum we can catch
predators people who are try right with
intention who are doing things
intentionally then that's
a lot better than where we are today
yeah i think like i mean in general that
actually that swings into that kind of
ties this together in a nice way because
like dr piggy you were saying like there
needs to be somebody that people can go
to
and just you know with the whole how
grassroots the scene is i'm not
i i'm like reading the chat i think a
lot of people are like kind of lost it's
like
you know the smash scene it's not
regulated by any big
organization like it's it's it's
literally
us up here on the screen right now it's
people like us it's the players the
commentators the like content creators
um it's like we we are the people
regulating it but we have
regular lives nintendo isn't doing
anything
and they probably won't i mean i look at
it
so um like that all being said like
you know it obviously can't be perfect
but i think it'd be interesting
it's one thing people do have to think
about is that before all this came to
light
people would go to people but it's the
people in power
were the ones with all the clout and
you know they're being all buddy buddy
with like other really nice people
and you know there's this whole kind of
just like oh they must be a good person
kind of accepted truth
and like so they'll go to them and
they'll go to people like d1 they'll go
to people like
i don't know like katar or like just
senpai and like they'll
they'll their beloved you know
front-facing community members and
that's kind of why
a lot of these people were also able to
get away with it because when you have
such power and you have so much like
there's such a like imbalance especially
within a grassroots community where the
people in charge are literally just the
most popular people
um it's like
you know there's the only real good way
to go about
fixing that i i think and like you can
dr pig or anyone else here you know
you guys have different perspectives on
this you can probably try to educate or
illuminate more on it but
i feel like spreading awareness in this
way
and kind of establishing it as like the
community tone
like hey none of us are gonna tolerate
this and
you know not not doesn't matter how like
how big of your
your following is like if all the big
players like you know like luffin was on
my side a lot
um like ludwig backed me up and like you
know mango all these people they spoke
out on it
do you know how much power that has and
that
that doesn't that that doesn't require
like nintendo that doesn't require like
like years worth of effort or just like
going through the trouble of like trying
to structurize some kind of
like convoluted like like legal system
within smash like that
alone has so much power and because
those people spoke up
everyone else who's following them sees
those things
and now they're aware of it so like i
think
i think like that plus having like
people
who they can go to like at events like i
would hope that you know people
if something was happening people can
trust me or like they could talk to us
like dr piggy or like maybe you guys
um i think that would that's a really
good starting point for like actual
change
and i've got to say um
so the code of conduct was created
through the community leadership
we consulted lawyers did lots of
research on it we have this
super thorough system to process cases
but it turns out that the need
is enormous that is with the amount of
reports we get
we cannot process in a fair manner um we
ever since the events of july we've got
about 250
and in our entire two years of existence
because we want to do every case right
because we want to hear both sides of
the story because we want to confirm
it takes about six weeks per case so do
the math there
that's like we've processed 20 out of
250 cases
um completely unpaid completely uh
no no protections legally um no
just out of the goodness of volunteering
and and caring about the community
um turns out it's not that sustainable
um and
firsthand i would say costs me an
enormous
emotional toll
and it should never fall to just me or
it should never fall to
even a group of five you know um so i
think what jesus is saying
is an important part of a cultural shift
i do think we need
structure i do think we need some place
where a victim can go and say
like this is what happened and we can
decide what's a fair ban but i don't
know how we can do that right now when
there's
not there's just not enough there's not
enough money there's not enough
people that care i
i'm laughing because you're kind of
saying there's not enough
right and i sort of get that but
not enough has two sides of the equation
it has
number of predators on one side and
number of like let's say code of conduct
people on the other
and and so the the funny thing there is
that i think that the way that
you even those odds is by reducing the
number of predators
and so that that i think gets yeah even
cases run it's better than zero yeah but
you know i i still
i'm with you i'm not i'm just saying
that like i think that if you think
about you know you're saying that
the number of cases we're getting is too
high and that's because
there are too many offenders out there
right so
one solution is to increase your
resources which by all means if it's
possible awesome
but the other thing and this is where
sometimes i i kind of wonder because
like
you know i remember hearing uggs and
kind of tk talk at the beginning about
how like it's strange because like you
knew this person
right and like you were close to them
and then you have trouble reconciling
the person that they sort of turned out
to be
and this could just be my you know
professional experience i've worked in
like prisons and stuff
and and one of the things that i i've
come to appreciate is that like
it's not that a person is good or bad
which i know sounds bizarre i mean some
people really
can be predominantly bad i've certainly
worked with those people
but but i think that even even like like
i'm just trying to figure out like if
i'm a predator
what do i do right so i i think if we if
we talk to
you know like what do you do like let's
say that you're 25 years old
you're part of the smash community and
in the rest of the world like this is
what we see with the community that we
work with right so like why do we play
games it's because
we like who we are in the game i'm a
someone
and then outside of the smash community
like you guys are talking about all this
power dynamic and clout
and stuff like that outside of the smash
community who have a new one
and i may have a certain amount of
social anxiety because lo and behold
like
you know since the age of nine instead
of developing social skills
i developed smash skills and then
along comes a 16 year old boy or girl
who suddenly like they look up at me and
my social anxiety is less because
they clearly are into me and i know it's
not right
to you know start a sexual relationship
i wouldn't even know how to
but i express interest in them and they
express interest in me and boy do they
really like me
and then i really like them they're
really awesome i invest a lot of my time
and i really do care about that i try to
help them right
because they have nowhere else to go so
i want to be a nice guy
and so i invite them to come stay with
me and then something strange happens
i've cared about them for so long i've
supported about them so long and then i
start to develop feelings
then what do i do with that
right so i think that like this this
kind of slippery slope
i mean you guys are you're making it
sound very intentional and i'm sure in
some cases it is
but the other thing that i don't know i
don't know like what someone in that
situation
does like how do they learn how to stop
a lot of therapy with somebody that
actually holds you accountable and
doesn't just tell you nice things about
yourself
i don't know that's my recommendation
sure i wouldn't say
i was gonna say like that's fine and all
until like you know i kind of stand by
the idea that people reveal who they are
when it really matters
and like in the case of like zero for
instance
the guy took like three different twit
longers and like literally
tried to manipulate other victims behind
their backs because he knew what else
was coming like he tried to get them to
shut up
and like you're you know if you're
really sorry
i'm sorry i don't care how many
characters you type up or what kind of
deflections you make with your arguments
like if you're really sorry you own up
to what happened you say
what happened you own up to it and you
say you're sorry
and in every single case
where you know somebody came out with
something
they deflected like you know d1 he
straight up said i don't remember
yeah anti was just like yeah oh
no these women are out to get me it's
like it's
why are these women out to get you you
know or like or he'll straight up say
like oh yeah i did this thing and i'm
not sorry for it it's like what
and like i think i think that's the
difference like there are
like like bobby said you can slip up you
can do something and make someone feel
uncomfortable and that's
that is just a part of like growing up
and like developing social skills or
like just getting to know someone but
it what matters is when you're
confronted with that truth
and how you handle it yeah
at the end of the day i think with a lot
of people they did not handle oh good go
forward
tk you haven't said okay i think i think
a lot of people
did not handle it in a way that
like there was no un discernible way
where you would think that they're
trying to change
other than i'm trying to save my career
like i think that
90 of the people who did come out and
put their apology statement
wasn't really apology or an explanation
or anything like that or like a
yes like i've done these things when i
was um
you know younger or whatever mostly
people probably couldn't do that anyway
because a lot of this stuff was recent
but like for those who may
have like stuff that like came out from
five years ago or whatever
and they have since then like have
learned their ways and they are like
i've changed the person that you can
physically physically you know visibly
see that change
like that should have been the way that
uh at least someone
some of them should have addressed it
but instead it just seemed like almost
everybody who
wanted to uh like counter-argue
their allegation only did it
for the fact of like either trying to
disprove the other person or
to like save their career as jesus said
i mean it really took zero like four
times before he told the truth
um you know what i'm saying and then
slippery [ __ ] when you think
about
yeah yeah and when you think about uh
nairo
uh that that situation with him it was
swept it was
he kept he i mean he paid hush money to
keep his career
you know what i mean and i think
if you're going to address it like that
then you're obviously not going to
learn from your mistakes i think if
you're not like really
uh trying to change for the better to be
like a better person
regardless of your career then you know
you're not
you're not really learning you're just
learning how to hide your i guess
predatory instincts better
and that's that's not good i mean
we a lot of people been making this joke
recently about like how
um the smash community like you know two
months ago
everyone was like oh believe women you
know oh we need to
kick out predators but now like no one's
saying that anymore because like it's
not the hot topic or whatever because
like people didn't actually care they
just wanted to appear like they cared
uh to look like they were the good guys
without actually
putting in any like good input um or
actually changing their own ways to help
out in the future um
i won't say that like i vehemently talk
about this every day
obviously but i still have my own
commands to talk about you know things
you can
you can educate yourself on uh on sexual
assault rape and all that good stuff and
how you can help out and things like
that and on top of that i've just
in the last five six years i've been
more like on more diligent about like
how i
i present myself to uh
well one women or just to anybody who
would like would feel
i guess some level of pressure for me
because i don't want that like i don't
want to
i don't want anyone to feel unsafe
around me um for like any reason
and i think that if more people were to
take
that like mindset we would at least be
able to start the
i guess the healing process of the smash
community so tkd someone says
yeah go ahead piggy if someone says you
hurt them
you stop and you listen and you say
even if i didn't intend to did i is it
possible
yeah and that's how you grow i think a
lot of people when they're hearing these
kinds of conversations they
they have a way of trying to convince
the other person how
well that's not what i intended to do so
you shouldn't feel hurt by it
rather than understanding it from their
perspective like to truly put themselves
into their shoes
to see how they feel about your actions
and that's the only thing that should
matter it shouldn't matter what your
intention was it's more about how you
made them feel with your actions that
could have been predatory it could have
been
you know made them feel uncomfortable
and even if you never intended to be
that kind of person as long as they feel
that way that's what you did that's the
truth of the matter
so um when there are people that are
trying to grow and trying to understand
how they could be less problematic
that's
one of the best things you can do is to
stop with the mentality of convincing
people that your intentions weren't what
they think they were
and instead focus on you know how they
actually felt about the situation
and what you could have done differently
to stop them from feeling that way it
doesn't matter what the hell your
intention was
if they felt that way impact instead of
intent
yeah tk you mentioned that you had
you had sort of changed a little bit
about the way that you think about your
interactions can you share that with us
yeah i mean just when i was younger i
was like
i was grow crazy you know you're like
i'm not gonna a lot i was definitely
like very much into like i would go to
tournaments and i was there for the game
obviously but like i was
like also very much interested in the
like the females or the women that were
there at the tournament and like
i wasn't it wasn't like i was like
overstepping any boundaries but i was
you know
like i would be more like
um i don't know flirtatious than i need
to be that than
than what uh i should have been too
early i guess before anything was
established
things like that and as i started to
grow up you know you just kind of
realize that like
what one like isn't that big of a deal
and two like
yeah this this favorite could be seen as
like
creepy so like as i started to grow up i
just became less
you know for like a better term thirsty
like just you know
like you kind of just you just kind of
just go about uh well once
that and also i just started like
working on my career a lot more so like
there's
like i put more time into like becoming
like a better commentator all that good
stuff so like most of my time was filled
up with
that stuff but then like to be
on this side now to be the person that
people trust
um when like things happen it's a lot
more fulfilling
for me than to like i don't know
potentially hook up with someone
uh like
i i usually there's been situations
where like
my uh like my women friends would
like come to me because someone was
chasing them around the the bar someone
was
speaking to them like in a weird manner
and like they wanted to feel safe so
they would come to me
i like that a lot more than being
the person who is making them feel
unsafe and half having to find
uh a person that they can trust like
that um
so yeah i just i don't know i grew up
like
like i think that's the easiest turn
just like i just i grew up you know and
uh
unfortunately i feel like a lot of my
peers did not as they were still
you know facing skirts you know in in in
a very malicious
and i guess predatory way and
i guess in in some ways i felt like
i may have seen it but mostly more so
like
distance myself because like that's not
what i wanted to do anymore when it
i i should have trying to be a little
more like
uh i guess let's say educational about
it you know like i should have been like
hey bro like you know we're getting old
now this is not like this ain't the way
you know what i'm saying but
like i don't know like in some ways i
feel like
it's not my responsibility obviously but
it also because they are my friends it
is kind of my responsibility like i
should have said something
but you're your own human and i'm not
sure if you're gonna listen to me anyway
so i'm just gonna continue to do me
and like become a better person myself
sorry like i think i think so i've had a
lot of people when this came out they
were like messaging me personally
saying like not because they did
anything to me but they just felt so
bad like you know like the whole
self-reflection like they
were associated with a lot of these
people and like they might have seen
some signs or suspicious signs but like
they didn't do anything to stop it
and like i have to say like i don't
think anyone should ever feel like
they did something wrong like they
shouldn't feel like it was totally their
sole responsibilities
to stop something in every situation
because the truth of it is
is that the person doing the thing
should just not be doing in the first
place
right like that that accountability
should be held with them
not with you but obviously like you know
that's the world
the world would be great if like things
actually worked out the way that they
should
but you know that's not how things are
so like
obviously i just think like if people if
there's one thing to take away is like
if you just do your best and
educate yourself or try to educate
yourself really and make that effort
um like that that alone i think
actually stops a lot of people from like
doing things
like the fact that like for instance
like you know tk you're up here and
you're like talking about this like you
know
anyone who's around you or any guy and
like with the with the
standing that you do have if they were
gonna do something if you're there
they're not gonna do it anymore
you know and like i feel like that like
just just
then like that you know like i said like
you're not being perfect but you're just
doing everything you can but like doing
something is so much better than not
doing anything
and like that goes first that goes for
like everybody in the scene right now
that is
or has done something to speak up about
it you know
yeah so i i've discovered something kind
of interesting since i've
been engaging with the internet i've
noticed that you know if people are
trying to figure out
is my behavior a problem there's an
interesting diagnostic test which is
do you refer to women as females if the
answer is yes
there's a decent chance i think it's
more likely that maybe some of your
behavior needs to be adjusted
it's a good litmus test that's a yellow
flag for me
right it's funny i don't know if you
guys caught but tk actually
re reframed in the middle of the
sentence
did you guys see that barely it's a
it's a
i grew up in the south in like a
predominantly black area in the south
and like that's just how that's how they
like
say no no i i i'm not trying to blame i
get what you're i get what you're saying
though like i definitely catch myself
because i know that like
in the real world like that's not a good
way to refer to women
but like it definitely is something that
like
uh i've still had to learn not to say
because like i don't mean it with
malicious intent but i know that like it
to other people that like saying like
usually
when it's said it is in a way where it's
like man females be
you know like females would be shopping
or whatever like people say it in ways
that like it's negative but i'm just
saying it because like
it's i don't know like the word just
hits easier for me however i definitely
will catch myself
in in normal conversation where if i'm
about to say i'm like oh no no i don't
want
i don't want to be perceived in a way so
say women say girls say anything
but that so yeah i also think to that
point
um because tk was mentioning this
earlier uh when you're
so we we have a lot of influence with
our guy friends like men have influence
over other men if they're like friends
and things like that and a lot of these
things that go on i think are part of a
culture that allows them to exist
so uh one of those ways to address that
part of the culture is that you check
your boys when they're using words like
females or [ __ ] even
and you stop them then and there because
even though
they feel comfortable around it around
by saying it around their friends
because you know it's not a big deal
who's going to get offended
it's uh the thing is it just creates
this culture of
objectifying women to the point where
it's going to manifest itself into some
actual action
that shows that disrespect so even if
they're not feeling disrespected because
you're not saying it in front of them
the fact that you're doing it regularly
and you are you know among
a group that's just constantly
encouraging it
eventually that lack of respect is going
to come out in a different kind of way
so even just
checking your friends on these little
things that go on constantly
it's gonna hopefully make them
value women as just another human that
they value
on the regular right um so yeah i mean
the the
i think that the female thing is uh is
an indicator i think
saying [ __ ] all the time instead of
women is a huge [ __ ]
indicator sorry but hugs on the stream
hugs i
i i've got a question for you so
sometimes when i try to tell my friends
not to call
[ __ ] [ __ ] and i say you should
call them women they call me a simp cuck
well when i when i've dealt with that
sort of thing like there's always
always push back whenever i bring it up
and i i just tell them
like they're they're like you know i
don't mean a man like why are you making
a big deal about it i'll always tell
them
like it's not there there's a way to
explain
like first you tell them that first of
all like are you going to stay in front
of them so why are you sitting in front
of me
and then uh then that's that's when they
say what are you a simp cuck
yeah yeah well then i would say no it's
just that they're they're
humans just like us and if you wouldn't
say it in front of them like would you
want someone saying that about your
mother your sister like you
you find ways to relate it to them and
then you also say honestly i
i put it into different perspectives
where i say okay let's say like
with racism right if you're dropping the
n bomb
and and then and then you just hide it
from everyone else do you think that's
cool and then if i'm dealing with
someone who's
not racist they'll be like no that's not
okay at all
i'm like right and then usually you have
people that are
saying it publicly it's because they do
it all the time privately and then
they're actually losing respect for this
group of people because they're
constantly
engaging behavior that just devalues
them right
so then why the hell are you okay with
doing this with women
and they could call me as like at that
point their argument of of me just being
a simp and just doing it for this
purpose kind of breaks down because
you you explain to them how this applies
to so many other things
and how if they actually want to value
people as people then they got to just
stop this
behavior in general like even in private
even with your boys etc
and i have some experience yeah i have
some experience with this so back in the
day we used to
use uh homophobic language to describe
any play style that was like
annoying and we used to use the word
rape
uh to talk about like domination if you
would really destroy somebody
and that was really widespread you know
i don't know 10 years ago
and it took time to switch that and you
know my wife helped me understand why
those
things were not good so i literally
didn't know i was ignorant to it
but once i knew i had this very
experience of saying like hey don't say
rape like that and people would be like
you know they would talk [ __ ] about me
what i ended up doing was saying like
yeah i am a simp cuck so
just shut the [ __ ] up about it like
don't say that around me kind of thing i
would just say like yes that's me yes
i'm a
[ __ ] cuck um
yeah i mean yes if that's what you want
to call me then yes that's exactly what
i am
um and eventually it got to a place
where they were curious about why i was
so pissed off about it
and i found that that really helped you
know when when i had people
asking me legitimately like okay fine so
you're a cuck like why do you care so
much about this
then for whatever reason i felt like it
was way easier to explain
that new people come into this room and
play melee with us
okay people who don't know us are in
this room playing and when we say [ __ ]
like that they don't know who we are
they sure [ __ ] don't know who i am
and i don't want them to think that i'm
cool with that because i don't know who
they are
i have friends we all have friends who
are who are gay who have played melee
for a long time where
they were so uh immersed in that kind of
language that they would say it
themselves but i didn't know if they had
a problem with it they hadn't even come
out you know
so learning later on that people who are
near and dear to me were in the room we
were talking about oh you're playing gay
uh they just sat through that and didn't
say anything took that on the shoulder
that uh really bothered me after i
learned
like what we had been doing and so i
don't know to be honest i feel like
what gives me strength is the idea that
i think melee is
[ __ ] dope and i think anybody who
thinks that it's dope should be able to
play it without a problem
right and so if anybody's creating a
problem for somebody who wants to play
melee then they i feel like they've got
a problem with me
so that's what lets me feel strong and
saying like yeah i'm a cook i'm
simping for anybody who wants to play
melee also i want to say
women love simcocks like
no that's not why it's not part of my
motivation but
that's cool the term simp has gone so
warped
that like i like saw some [ __ ] on like
okay
i don't know i don't follow the
mainstream internet that much but i saw
like idubbbz or whatever in his
girlfriend like they're calling him a
sim for having a girlfriend it's like
what
he has a girlfriend and you don't it's
like
if being a sim card gets you the girl
then i don't know what the [ __ ] to say
but anyway it sounds like the sim card
is the true chad
i think so when everything flips at a
certain point everything goes full
circle
car was literally being in the chat he
was the dude that said like stop we got
to not do this he went against the grain
and like that's like
to me that takes more balls than like
and you know
it definitely does and as soon as one
thing i want to say is that i think the
first follower is just
as important as the leader here because
uh the first person to say like hey
don't use that language around me
they're super vulnerable
but if you're in that situation and you
feel any kind of way and you can back
that person up who's on the right side
that goes so far i can't i really can't
express
how that changes the culture more than
any one person
so there's some people who are going to
take the lead and who are going to tank
but then there's other people who are
you know the healers behind you got to
like keep their health up because they
get hit
yeah and i just want to mention that uh
when
when a lot of these accusations came out
in july one of the things that
you know people were called out for
behavior from the past and then one of
the defenses were always uh well that's
just how things were back then right
and i think that as a community we
always need to be
forward looking and thinking where um
uh you should be uncomfortable with
things before it's cool to be
uncomfortable with them right like
like the way like i always commend scar
for this because he was
talking about how we shouldn't say uh
homophobic slurs and
and these uh and words like rape that
make people uncomfortable
uh way before uh anyone was even
thinking about that
and he got a lot of [ __ ] for it but uh
things don't change unless you challenge
what's going on
normally and he did so now we're at a
point where i could ask someone like do
you think it's okay
to to use homophobic slurs and then
they'll just
be like obviously not and we're at that
point now and we're not going to be at
that point with
language and behavior that makes women
uncomfortable unless we challenge it
before it's cool to
challenge you yeah you have to be
forward thinking you have to start
challenging it now so that
a year from now or hopefully sooner when
when you say uh you know is it okay to
use the word [ __ ] to describe women
they're gonna be like
that makes no sense that's an awful
thing to do right so like you you have
to
not wait for things to be okay you have
make them not okay like and honestly
just like what
tk said about like okay it's fun to hook
up with somebody but it feels so much
better
right when people are coming to you and
like you're really able to help them
i just feel like yes it's not fun in the
beginning to challenge the status quo
but
when it changes it's really gratifying
like i'm proud of what we were able to
do i know that we've got a lot more work
to do but like
changing the language is big and it took
a it took some time but
i'm just proud that we did it i mean
damn dude i was also pretty happy that
you know we weren't like oh where's the
proof with all the stuff coming out
yeah because uh i could've gone that way
i don't think our specific
problem is just uh strictly the
predators that we've caught
i think it's a cultural problem that we
have had in the scene
and that's like you you presented the
question earlier about
minimizing the amount of predators that
we have i think changing the culture
which includes you know
uh people in power saying this [ __ ]
ain't cool and then
also the language that we used even
behind closed doors like you you address
like all these cultural things
um and i think that starts to help i
think that starts to change things you
know you at least minimize
just like we minimize the amount of
people that are hateful towards
um people of of of different
sexualities and things like that like we
we can do that with
uh with the people that make women
uncomfortable or assault them
and are predators and things like that
like we could change the culture and
start minimizing that as well
i i would hope yeah so and i do want to
add that one thing you can do besides
you know calling out your buds and like
pushing for this cultural shift it's
important to amplify the voices of the
people that experienced it firsthand too
so you know it's it's great to be able
to explain but
uh you know if somebody else makes if a
girl makes a tweet about how sexism
makes her feel you don't have to explain
over her you can just retweet and that
is
you know that is using your influence to
to elevate and amplify something that
someone personally experience reminds me
of this phrase i don't know if you guys
ever heard this
before but no snowflake feels
responsible for the avalanche
i've never heard that but i like it
um i i guess so let me ask you guys
two questions i i guess the first is i'm
personally a little bit confused about
how to handle you know believe women
versus
people who do uh fabricate
allegations so do you guys have any
thoughts about
how to manage that we should do
my uh my first instance
is to like all like i'm gonna read
whatever comes out
then i'll like if i know this person i
will like
put you know my i will put i would like
think about like
them as a person and then read this and
be like do these two things feel like
they match up
if they do then you know we'll [ __ ] but
if not
then i'm still going to wait i'm not
going to like i never the first person
to be like oh man
that's crazy i can't believe he did this
but i'm also not going to be the first
person to be like yo
proof i need to it's just the
information is out there
i want to see what happens now so
basically like i'm just waiting to see
what comes next so if this person goes
silent for four days
i'm more inclined to believe that
whatever was written is true but if this
person comes out
like that day and says you know i have
you know i have evidence or whatever
that is not true then i'm gonna wait to
make my like final judgment you know i'm
saying like i'm not gonna call him i'm a
liar i'm not gonna tell him uh
take anything and just immediately
believe but i will at least try to do
some like
uh i guess some rec some thinking on
both on all of the information that i
have
uh before making a decision but whoever
came out first i'm
more unlikely like i'm more inclined to
believe that like especially in this
climate that
whatever is being said is most likely
there's some truth behind it you know
like it may not
be 1000 correct but there is
a probably a some level some level
behavior that has made someone feel
uncomfortable enough to come up
to come out with this story so it is
easier for me to believe
that whatever i'm reading is probably
closer to the truth than whatever is
going to come out unless that person
comes out with like facts receipts and
all that
saying that like yo this didn't happen
and it does suck because obviously
i think that the few people that may
have come out with a
with a fake story like
even if the story is fake and you're
able to disprove it like that's still
going to follow you
like for a long long time you know and
it may be like a one or two percent
uh of stories that are it are fake
but those those people are still gonna
be hurting just because they've been
looped they're going to be lumped in
with everybody else because no one
a lot of people didn't go off and do
research after to
see if this was fake or not you know
what i'm saying so i think the phrase
believe women doesn't mean whoever was
accused
is absolutely guilty and we should go
dox them and we should condemn them and
never speak to them again
i don't think that's what believe women
means it means that when you read that
story for the first time you aren't
thinking like
well maybe she just regrets it it means
you're not thinking you're not gonna ask
like
well did she like flirt with him a
little bit and that's why you thought it
was okay
no you're gonna be like man that sucks
if that happened
like just give me that basic uh uh
empathy that like if i came forward
about this story
get benefit of the doubt that doesn't
mean you don't confirm like tk is saying
you have to hear both sides because some
weird [ __ ] does happen
but um believe women just means
don't try to invalidate what we're
saying
so i it's interesting because what i i
realize what i practically do is i take
the
allegations seriously but tend to not
pass
judgment right away right
you know maybe it's not for us to pass
judgment all the time right like yeah i
think every individual community member
doesn't need to know all of the gory
details of everybody's lives
but again that's assuming that there is
someone that will
uh uh demand accountability or or have
some kind of judgment in the end which
who knows if that happens in any given
case
i i will say as someone who's like
faced like the brunt of like a lot of
like cloud-chasing thought horror
accusations which by the way
again i didn't make my platform off of a
lot of those like
conventional things that guys on the
internet always hate on
it was only after i made my accusations
that men i only want to say men i don't
know who just people on the internet
immediately went to dig and try to find
the most
thoughtiest or like most condemning
things about me and try to paint me in
this light
and you know again there's not that much
there's not really anything on me to be
honest but like you'll go on youtube and
there's there's video thumbnails they'll
dick up pictures of me that i posted of
myself
from like three or four years ago and
it's like and there's such a clear
intent behind it which is
you know to paint me like a thought you
know like oh this person is just another
gold digging thought
like haha let's all go [ __ ] on her
because as men that's what we like to do
on the internet
and i think what you know dr piggy and
all these like the whole rhetoric right
now
is you know people do make up stories
i'm not going to pretend like that [ __ ]
doesn't exist but
when someone comes out with something
especially like in my situation where i
was putting a lot on the line like when
i called zero out
you know i i was like all right you know
i know my story is true
i hope people back me up on it but if
this [ __ ] tanks it's like well
buy smash community you know and like i
mean thankfully it didn't but like
well maybe look at these situations
where like somebody's not gonna come out
with a story like that for no reason
especially if they have nothing to gain
from it really
you know like what do you get like 10
minutes of fame especially if they come
out anonymously like what like they're
not getting anything out of it
and like two like you know
women they don't like like dr piggy said
when she said believe women that doesn't
mean
oh let's just ignore critical thinking
like that's that's all
that's that's just as bad as the other
thing you're doing the same thing just
the other way what we're asking for
is the same credence and respect
and open-mindedness that you always give
to
the guys that's literally it and if you
do that
then in most situations like nine times
out of ten you know you if you
critically think through it
then you'll arrive to the truth and
like i i will say like by default even
with how
you know i don't like using this word
but like not conventionally i've held
myself
like or presented myself on the internet
i was i still
felt and got a huge like
like backlash from the default state of
mind of men which is just to
like hate on the girl and it doesn't
matter what you do it's like it's the
fact that you're a girl
they're gonna call you these things
they're gonna dig up these things about
you and then they're gonna be like here
this is what she does she's a thought
this is how she makes her living
it's like that's not even true but like
they that's that's what they want to do
they just want to hate women
so that's that is the first thing that
needs to be changed and it's still
something that's being fought against
that's literally all that that's really
all that all the good women mean
and like even if you are a sex worker
that does not necessarily
it doesn't lower your value as a human
or as a smash community member
right um i've been called like a social
justice warrior infiltrator lizard
person
just because they can't believe that a
woman would be in smash bros
or whatever and it's yeah so
there are some people that the issue is
that you're a woman
not everybody but some people will find
whatever they can
and make that the issue yeah
yeah so what's next guys what do we what
do we do
what happens well as of right now i
don't know because we're
you know with the quarantine stuff like
it's just
we a lot happened in a short amount of
time
uh within the smash community to make it
feel like
you know it's not that it's dead but
it's definitely
like some type of hiatus now whenever we
come back i hope that
uh these lessons don't get lost like i
hope that
after after seeing that literally and
like to any
to anyone watching or whatever to anyone
who plays to anyone who's planning a
tournament after saying that literally
anyone can go down
that you if you have uh problematic
behavior
that like it is something that you try
to fix you know not only for just the
smash community but just in life you
know i mean like
these uh these are not just smash
community exclusive things these are
life lessons
you know don't make people feel
uncomfortable anywhere if you
can if you can stop that like if you can
uh if you have the power to
to not do that then you know do that um
so i feel like as far as being a
community leader
uh not to say that i am but i know that
there
are people out there that will look up
to me you know they will look up to us
that will look up to anyone with status
with clout whatever
the best thing we can do is lead by
example in my opinion
um i think the best thing we can do is
continue to
make those who feel who make other
people feel uncomfortable
uncomfortable you know like if me
telling you that like your behavior is
problematic and that makes you
uncomfortable because you are being
problematic then good you know what i'm
saying
like that's that's the reaction that i
want because then it's gonna make you
uh think about you know what you're
doing and what you can be doing better
and that's all i really
wish to accomplish you know is to make
sure that people
are uh i guess consciously aware of
themselves
and what they can do to hold themselves
and other people accountable
yeah i did hold i did have like this
like big panel
and one of the people that i invited was
actually the t.o of genesis
um he goes well like share dactyls like
online um
but like you know because i think one of
the biggest questions obviously like
you're asking it right now is like what
do we do now and
it's more than just a matter of like the
culture like there's a lot of logistics
uh
um just like objective
pieces that need to move to like make
things happen
and it's a matter it's a question of
like who's gonna do it and what exactly
does that entail and like especially
like
yeah whenever tournaments might happen
you know that's one of the biggest
question marks
and like um
he did tell us that a lot of the tos
are in talks or have been in talks of
measures that they can take
to prevent things like this happening um
and i think a big a big point though
that he wanted to emphasize
like i think needs to be emphasized too
is like it's not going to be perfect
like you know
once things come back and like
tournaments are a thing again like it's
not like
you know oh they're gonna have the
perfect system figured out it's like the
like you know like literally the legal
police in our world
with all the funding and structure and
infrastructure they have like
they don't even have things figured out
you know and it's it's unreasonable to
think that
it's not going to take a couple of tries
but like i said before it's the fact
that
people are even trying like that's the
difference
and i think especially online too i've
already noticed like a difference
where people have been taking a stand
like recently
there was um there was a really
questionable twit longer made about
somebody who was ousted
uh and like it was
like people immediately came and like
you know what i'm talking about people
immediately came and they're just like
they're just like [ __ ] on it they're
like what are you talking about you know
and like
obviously we want to give credence to
both sides but it wasn't a case where
the accused
already admitted and like i said there's
a history of him being very
like predatory towards women in general
um which his
that person's twit longer just
completely ignored uh
so like you know that wasn't a thing
before this whole happened like people
if
that twit longer came out like before
the whole july
stuff more people more people definitely
just be on his side especially because
he does have a decent enough following
so like um there is change that's
happening and i think like
just like how somebody who's like
correcting themselves
like they need to keep doing the same
actions and like create a record of it
to actually show true change it's the
same for the community like we as a
whole
need to work together to keep
reinforcing
the promises that we that we've made to
like the victims of the past and like to
prevent this for like victims of the
future
you know i
wanted to ask a question actually so you
know toph and i did a stream
about this i don't know a while ago and
uh one of the ideas we come up
came up with or one of the things we
talked about is like how people can be
isolated
not only victims but you know people who
are
starting to who are close to making a
big mistake and the question was who can
they talk to
and uh you know i was kind of thinking
about the recovery coach program that dr
k and healthy gamer are putting together
and like
does anybody think it would be a good
idea to have like a
melee or a smash community like recovery
coach
type deal where hey i'm i've got a
problem i'm a melee player like i don't
know who to talk to like
have a discord have a place dr k i don't
know how recovery coach program
and the rollout's going but it just
seems to me that having people more
connected to each other and being able
to talk to somebody
and it's not uh somebody who's a lawyer
who's gonna charge you money or
you know a psychiatrist who might not
actually help in any meaningful way
but just somebody you could talk to
you know i didn't mean it that way i i
thought it was funny
i'm not i'm not offended okay
i'm laughing because i just need
somebody in the community to
help connect people so so that because
for me i never hear about this [ __ ] till
it's way too late i don't know
and i know that there's people who care
who feel that there's nothing they can
do because it's always too late
and i've just been thinking about like
how do we get the information to flow
the information flow seems to be a big
problem in my mind that people could
have problems and they just can't get it
out there
go ahead jisoo oh i was i was just
i was just thinking about it like i want
to think a little bit more
before i say anything else but i feel
like i don't know i feel like dr piggy
is already
kind of working on that and along with
some other people
um i don't know if that's true or not
generally speaking when when dr k
asks like what do we do next um
that's really hard for me to answer
because i've been the backbone of a lot
of the code of conduct initiatives and
i'm getting burnt out guys
i spent too many nights crying in the
shower getting
messages from abusers i can't i
it takes a village and we need a village
um
but yes i mean that's real talk too
because like i think
that was that low tier city you were
like you're about to get on commentary
and you look a little rattled and i came
up to you and asked you are you good you
were telling me a little bit about that
stuff and i felt bad because like it
really
it really does feel like you're
shouldering at all when it really does
it should be
on all of us and not just you so i mean
i appreciate the work you're doing i
just want you to know that
but i like you know if there's anything
any way that we
i could help you directly you know you
can always dm me like i'm always around
yeah and i apologize if it sounds like
i'm saying oh let's do something you've
already been working on
the thing i'm talking about is like the
way to build the village and the
recovery coach program just sounds it
just hit me when it
you know when when healthy gamer
announced it that like that could be
cool you know it's like organic and it
can spread
like whoever wants to get involved can
can we help them get involved so that we
have a village
yes if if anyone has any kind of if
you're trying to figure out a code of
conduct initiative for your local scene
if you're trying to
create a resources page or document
please do it there is no monopoly on
this
and and really i you know i talk about
my struggles but there have been so many
people along the way that have given
their hours of time
and love um to the code of conduct
projects i'm the one that's happened to
be here the longest right
and done it most consistently i suppose
um but whether or not
i end up continuing with the code of
conduct work um the one
goal i have in the coming months is
creating resource
uh pool right so resources for
tournament organizers how uh
how can you implement your own codes
what are the kind of rules and
commitments
uh what kind of questions do you need to
ask when somebody comes to you with a
report
um creating resources for victims so
like how can i get
how can i see a therapist or like what's
my likelihood of being able to
sue this person or like how can i talk
to somebody having resources for accused
people like
how to write an apology or even things
like um
you know uh therapy for themselves like
there are so many
things that just weren't talked about in
smash community that if if that
information and education were out there
i think it would do a lot of good um so
i you know i don't know where i'll be
but i do think one of the answer
is creating consistent structural um
emphasis and importance on
accountability
and how each person in each part of our
community whether you're a terminal
organizer or
or just a player or a top player
whatever what
you can do and then stick to it you know
throughout my work there's been a lot of
people that have
ideas they have big dreams and big ideas
of what to do but the follow through
is what really makes people it's
effective
and makes somebody an amazing person in
my eyes is when you follow through on
those things right like all this july
stuff that happened
the people that are still out there
working god you're my heroes
you know you're the ones that that we
that
that should be elevated um not just
because you're good at the game but
because
you committed to protecting people and
then you did it like that's so powerful
wait i have a question for like okay
wait doesn't melee have like okay so i
don't fall ultimate that well i'm like
more like mailing
but like doesn't it have like that like
tournament legalization
like squad like i remember
like when ucf and like you talk about
like the five and the 25.
yeah yeah i'm talking about the five and
i forget i forget what their name is
they're literally
erased that stuff in my mind it was so
ridiculous
okay like i was gonna i was gonna say
like there is some kind of structure
going on whether it's just like
literally facebook messages or whatever
but like
like i think i feel like just a tangible
solution
would be like because okay because the
scene they attack like tournament
legal issues so vehemently they'll be
like
yo pokemon stadium and then everyone's
oh like the other pitchforks after like
i'm so passionate about this you know
and like i feel like
instead of like having like these like
the code of conduct or like the 525 i
don't know what it is nowadays
it's always changing but like if if it
could all somehow just like come
together
because there is a panel of people who
do these things and make decisions
it's just that it needs like these like
sexual allegations and like social
issues need to be brought up on the same
pedestal
as like oh how many times can mewtwo can
grab the ledge
like that's just like it's like why why
are we spending like
20 [ __ ] years like discussing like
that [ __ ]
instead of like oh is it bad if we give
alcohol to a 15 year old it's like
the conduct actually did come out of the
five
um emily's son emily waves she was like
hey y'all uh why don't we
deal with this issue of harassment and
they're like we don't think we that's
our specialty you should make a a group
so that's when the harassment task force
was formed and then we changed our name
to code of conduct
so originally this was part of some like
bigger initiative and i do
i am in chats with like the five or
whatever but i think they kind of had
the same problem that i've been
describing and that the consistency and
the follow-through
um of like creating a rule set or or
you know a ban recommendation or
whatever isn't always there
so i'm going to take a stab at bobby's
question
so like does kim coaching help so like i
think that the
the interesting thing is that you know
with a lot of the metoo movement
let me just take a step back so i'm
going to say some things that i think
could be a little bit controversial
um and so if you guys have any questions
or you feel like
it's out of line like please let me know
so
honestly the way i think about this is
like lung cancer so if we start with
sort of the idea like if we think about
medicine right so
you have a patient who has lung cancer
like that's really bad
and then you have this entire branch of
oncology
which is like okay like chemotherapy and
radiation and all this kind of stuff
like a lot of intensive medicine
just a really bad situation that's just
like ugly
and when i think about these predators
as you guys are describing them
i sort of think about lung cancer um
and that in and of itself is sort of
like a maybe a judgmental image
may be fair maybe unfair depending on
who you are what you believe whatever
but the real interesting thing is like
do you guys know
how we really
improved lung cancer outcomes at least
in the united states
uh i did not what are you guys like so
lung cancer used to be a way worse
problem 60 years ago
than it is now smoking absolutely
so here's the really really crazy
thought which i think a lot of people
don't really think about and i think if
we really tunnel down
hugs sort of mention this right it's
like we have this idea like there are
these people out there and we like
label them as predators this person is a
predator it's the way that we define
them
it's kind of like this war against like
the good people and the bad people
and hugs when he sort of like realized
oh my god like this is a person that i
thought was in the good camp
and now he's in the bad camp and in a
bizarre way like tk
actually kind of touched us on this too
because he used to be thirsty
and then something happened and he grew
up as he calls it
so i i here's the way that i think about
it i think that there
are a thousand or ten thousand or a
hundred thousand
people who could grow up to be predators
and for me it started with the question
like when was this predator born
like this guy who did whatever you did
to jisoo or or did whatever they did to
to you piggy like when did this person
become a predator
because like you guys said it's kind of
like there's this this long like not
crossing the line not crossing the line
not crossing the line and they cross the
line
right were they a predator at that point
or were they like a predator before
was he a predator the first time he like
walked up to jisoo and said hey what's
going on
when is a predator born because i think
it's okay first of all
yeah can we i really want to vehemently
disagree with the idea that somebody's a
predator are not a predator
so somebody's what um that somebody is
binary a predator or not
yeah i know that that's the point i'm
making oh okay cause you're saying that
like
yeah we put these people into buckets
but that's not it at all well that's how
we talk about them right
so you guys have used the word predator
throughout this entire discussion
you've talked about people in a very
judgmental manner because i mean like
that's what that's the language we call
these people
predators but yeah but but so i'm i'm
with you
yeah piggy so like that's sort of like
calling someone you know
schizophrenic this person is a
schizophrenic
versus as schizophrenia so there are
some people who we define
their personhood by a particular
attribute of who they are so like
homophobic slurs is another good example
thought is another good example where we
define an entire person
by one attribute of their being and one
place where i see
very few people everyone's against using
you know the word thought
or [ __ ] or homophobic slur but when it
comes to defining a predator as a
predator
everyone's on board you're the in the
minority piggy
because most people are okay with
tarring and feathering
sexual predators which i'm not saying is
i mean i think it's reasonable in a lot
of ways
um but i i think the the the issue about
how to solve this and where the coaching
program comes in is because i think that
like
you know i mean i
certainly had a lot of feelings that i
think like align with being an incel
when i was growing up like
a lot of young male gamers do we were
socially awkward couldn't get
girlfriends
sexually frustrated and then like some
of us grow up and i think some of us
don't
and so what i'm really curious about is
like that fork in the road like what's
the lung can
what's the smoking in our society that
leads to the lung cancer
and so we talk about cultural change
right but i think that like in my mind
there's like there's a 17 year old kid
out there right now
who could one day turn into a sexual
predator
and whatever hey i don't want to
interrupt but like when i thought about
this hey man
the people who were doing like they got
into the community young so you've got
young men who do not have a lot of
interaction with women where they are
[ __ ] famous and there is booze around
and like
you know what i mean this is a bad
environment
do you know what i'm saying like the
environment is going to bring that out
of people who wouldn't i feel otherwise
do it if it wasn't so high risk
yeah so i i think the the tricky thing
sorry piggy go ahead
the way i think about this is it's i
think something similar to you
imagine a normal distribution a
bell-shaped curve right and there's
right down the middle
uh a line that we draw the average right
and if you're above that line you're a
predator if you're below that line
you're not right
and maybe you have
an entitlement issue where you think
people owe you and maybe that puts you
ten percent higher
and or maybe your mom was sexually
assaulted when she was young and that's
why that puts you five percent lower
right
but like what are the big like 20 chunks
that would put you over the edge right
because we can say culture who our best
friend is maybe that's two percent
um personal responsibility should be
like a 30
or something like that but like there
are risk factors just like
just like lung cancer that that
additively
or subtractively end up with the binary
result
of does something that hurts other
people or doesn't
right and i think we can go even further
and say like well if you're in the upper
eighty percent
at that point that's when you're
intending to hurt people not just on
accident and so how does somebody get
from
doing it and not realizing the hurt
they're causing to like knowing and
doing it anyway
so there's so many underlying factors
but i think it is important for us to
say like okay so what are the biggest
ones
yeah so so i think this is where kind of
bobby's question was about the coaching
program so in my experience so like so i
i tend to work on an individual level
right so that's what my day job is
so i take someone with let's say an
addiction and they have like all kinds
of stuff like
abuse growing up family history of
addiction
what are like you know struggling
financially whatever
and and so you all ultimately end up
with kind of a unit the short answer is
that i i do think bobby that the
coaching program can help
and that's why we started it because i
think at the end of the day just like
piggy is saying
there are a thousand different factors i
think you guys are we're talking about a
couple of them are like no-brainers to
me so
one thing for example that i noticed
just like the epidemiologist in me
noticed that like 90 of these stories
involve drinking
and usually a lot of them right so it
like
like a lot of it is like after parties
with like i
and i think the smash community is in a
sense a little bit
of an outlier because i think there's
way more underage people
but if you look at like the dota
community like i don't think they're a
bunch of 15 year olds at after parties
it's like mostly people over the age of
18 but there's also just a lot about
there's a lot of alcohol and that kind
of comes from the cultural conception
that an after party needs to have
alcohol
which is like a really deep rooted thing
the short answer is yeah sorry let me
just finish up
if that's okay yeah yeah um so the short
answer is that i
i do think we can help and like this is
what we see so what we see is that when
we sort of like
open our doors and try to be
non-judgmental
we do deal with a lot of people who are
like in cells
so we just tossed around the idea
recently of starting like an incel group
because i
we've tried to get what i call a true
incel on stream because it's my
hypothesis that
an insult is like it's like a it's like
a
a mode that emerges when you're in a
particular environment and when you
actually sit down and you talk to these
people
you find that they're they're like
they're like pretty normal people that
just
have internal struggles that then they
find this echo chamber that kind of like
fans a particular kind of flame
and like changes the way they think and
then they sort of like turn into this
like weird wolf which is like a normal
human by day
like if you can get them one-on-one and
actually talk to them you can really
start to make a pretty big impact like
relatively
easily and so i do think this is why we
have like group coaching we literally
just this past week talked about
like offering particular groups for like
in cells or other people who are
struggling with these things because i
i think the really other the other thing
that we don't really like to think about
when it comes to predators is we don't
talk to them right we almost never do
that
because i suspect that a lot of these
people who get out of line
actually do so not out of a predatory
instinct
but out of a positive emotion i think
that some of these people
are so infatuated are so in love or so
entitled
that they think it's okay like most
human beings in my experience
when they commit a sin they don't
do it knowing it's a sin they do it
thinking that they're justified
and they think that there's some like
there's something going on where they're
like
you know like someone who's unfaithful
to their partner justifies it because
their partner didn't pay enough
attention to them it's very what we call
ego syntonic
they don't think that they don't view
what they're doing is predatory behavior
because they feel a particular way about
it and this is where we kind of go back
to what hugs was saying earlier about
like you have to learn how to step out
of your own shoes and just because you
don't think it's a problem
doesn't mean it isn't a problem and my
my end sort of conclusion is that i
think we need to like start
early i think we need to work with a lot
of people probably on an individual or
group level
and i think it's awesome that we have
these large-scale like code of conduct
kind of measures
but i i do think that at some point what
we really need to do we're almost at a
phase where we're like
you know 50 years ago addiction was
considered a moral
problem and is is like now like more of
a disease
and working with people like i'm an
addiction psychiatrist in my day job i
think sometimes it is a moral problem
like sometimes human beings let like
they just act in a very like nasty way
not because
of their addiction like you can be an
addict and be an [ __ ] too
and i think sometimes like now it's
gotten over medicalized to the point
where like people use their addiction as
an excuse
where i think sometimes like you know
it's a medical problem absolutely but
sometimes sort of like
people turn it like use that as an
excuse which is really bizarre
and and i think what we've really got to
do is like dig into
you know why do people do these kinds of
things like how do we understand that
and how do we alter that course
how do we get these people when they're
16 17 18
in terms of like role models right
because if tk says hey man like don't
use that kind of language
they'll change like that's one way to do
it but i do think that a lot of
individual work can go a very long way
in terms of of like if you take this
person like an incel
if you can help them find confidence the
in-cell behavior just withers away
in-cell behavior and in my experience a
lot of toxic
behavior is nourished by like negative
emotion
it's nourished by feelings of like shame
like why do they call you
thoughts why do they why do they have to
refer
to women as [ __ ] it's because it like
protects them in some way because if i
dehumanize this person
then like i don't have to feel like
judged by that
there's a lot of like weird complicated
psychology that goes into it but the
short answer is yes
and i say that with caution because the
last thing that i want to do is is you
know bombard our coaches with a bunch of
would-be sexual predators um but at the
same time i think that you know you guys
do what y'all are gonna do healthy
gamers gonna do what we're gonna do
which is we're gonna try to get into the
heart of it and talk to people who
struggle
and try to help them see that there's a
different way to go about doing it
right that the toxic feelings that you
have towards people are ultimately
like stem it's my experience that in
cells for example it comes from heart
like they like got hurt by a woman and
then they like rage at them
it's like you know and and and like
once you unpack that hurt then like the
toxicity will go away i'm not excusing
the toxicity in any way shape or form
i'm just saying that they're you know
you can sort of do structural things and
then you can also get to the individual
person
and try to help them understand hey man
like sure you're behaving like an
[ __ ] and you should stop but i think
it's also important to understand
why are you behaving like an [ __ ] in
the first place like where does that
come from
because once you understand where the
[ __ ] inside you comes from
then you can really start to change it
spoken like a true clinician
well okay i don't know what everyone
else is thinking but like
i've actually thought about this a lot
um
obviously having gone through it and
like
you know i i do want to empathize with
the other side as much as possible as
possible because
you have to be objective like and i do
like to think about
an individual and like where they came
from like the psychology of like why
they do things
um and like i do agree that
we should all be approaching it from the
perspective that like you know i'm not
going to pretend like there aren't
guys out there who are lonely and are
hurt and
they're taking it out on women you know
because they feel hurt by women i'm not
going to pretend like women are
perfect and have never done anything to
hurt men
um that all being said though i feel
like
just with like you coming back to the
idea of how at least the internet or
just like the world at large
is predisposed to give more credence to
men like
for instance i think the fact that
you're even
you want to coach these men because you
were once in a position
like you're saying yourself like them
and their mindset and mentality like
that that is great and like that that is
a measure that needs to be done and it's
hard and
like the amount of thought that you're
putting into it is like admirable
but where is the same side and
i think that's where i felt so strongly
about like and i don't normally like to
talk about these things but i felt so
strongly i realized i almost have this
duty to do this
because the same kind of like
objective thought isn't put into why
women do the things that they did like a
lot of times when these stories come out
like
okay so let's say some guy hurt a
girl or or some girl hurt a guy growing
up and then the guy just like hates
women
okay so that's that's a relatable story
for a lot of guys on the internet and
like predominantly
most people like like on reddit for
instance are probably they're probably
male or i don't go on reddit that much
but like it sounds like they're all like
males
and like they're all gonna agree with
each other and empathize with that
mindset right
and just logistically speaking because
there are more males on there
any mindset or perspective that's not
their mindset
is gonna get shunned and i think
that's kind of i don't have a problem
with like
giving credence the idea like oh it
needs to we need to
speak to predators or like i don't even
like using the word predators because
again i don't think it's binary either i
think that
people do things people grow up and turn
out to be one way or another for a
variety of reasons
um and like i do agree that every person
has their story and the reason why they
do stuff
but that being said there is a disparity
for
how women are viewed and how their
outlooks and perspectives
are treated and like you can't say
that there's the same kind of like um
i don't know yeah like there's just
there's not the same level of empathy
given and i
have to say i think it just be it's
because the internet is predisposed
to mostly just be of like a male mindset
um and like i think at least in the case
where like
like in the smash community and you'll
see this at the world at large too like
do you think
do you think epstein didn't know what he
was doing do you think
these people like you know you said that
oh this person
maybe they weren't aware i think that's
true for the average person i think
that's true for most people
like the bell curve for like people who
do bad things is like the majority of
them like yeah they
they're not aware and as soon as you
coach them or really teach them
um like what what their actions mean
they'll get it
but there are there are the outliers and
these are typically the people who
once they get in power they abuse it you
know because they're they're waiting in
society
to finally have their chance to abuse
their power and get away with it you
know and that's
that's kind of what we saw in smash
because like i said once they were held
accountable
they they ran away from it and like i
think
i think setting the example is also so
important because
like in the real world a lot of guys get
away with stuff just because
they they're not they don't they're not
penalized for it like who's that one guy
that brock dude who like literally like
like like turner yeah brock turner he
literally like drugged this girl and
like raped her and like
like he only faced like six months in
prison or something crazy whereas
there's like people
who are like dealing weed or [ __ ] and
getting like years in jail it's like
that what the disparity is so bad
and like that the precedent that that
sets is like so
horrible and like if we're gonna go in
here and be like
okay we need to give credence to the
idea that like predators aren't
predators it's like okay the same thing
needs to be said then for like the women
and the disenfranchised like people and
like that
you know everything so i'm not trying to
discredit anything that you just said i
just think that
it needs to be said that there are other
perspectives out there and that
this disparity is real yeah absolutely
like the idea of a perfect victim the
fact that the woman had to do x
y and z for us to support or believe her
like that's what that's what i'm
i wish people understood it's like there
is no such thing as a perfect victim
we should we can empathize and try to
change predators but at the same time we
can empathize with women who didn't do
exactly xyz when they were
uh victimized like so so let me just
i feel like i want to respond to that is
that okay jisoo
yep so it's it's a great point right so
the first thing that i have to
understand is that like when i speak i'm
coming from a male
perspective which is gonna def by
definition have some bias
right the second thing
is you know you know where i got this
idea
actually a panel of female gamers
so like we started with women so we
started actually by like talking to
women about what's your experience
like being a woman in gaming what's your
experience like
dealing with toxicity in video games and
then we had a second panel
before we have yet to have a panel with
insults second panel about
like women sharing their experiences of
like rando dudes falling in love with
them over the internet
fascinating panel right so i absolutely
think that this is a group of people
like
it's a psychological burden
that the average by average i mean male
like person on the internet has no idea
that you guys just live in a different
world where you can't go into a game
and just use [ __ ] voice chat because
people will send you pictures of their
penis afterward
it's just a completely different world
and so like
we had these two panels of women which
were mind-blowing to me just to hear
what the experiences of these people are
like that's what we're dedicated to
to ex like like sort of leveling this
playing field
educating the masses about what it's
like to be a minority in gaming
and what you guys have to deal with and
doing so in a way that hopefully the
people aren't watching aren't like who
thought you know it's it's like it's a
really genuine perspective
it's no one's looking for clout or fame
or anything you can't even make that
argument it's just someone coming on and
sharing their experience
and the crazy thing is that through
those two conversations
i was surprised because i asked the
women i was like let me ask you
i use guys so that also like tk i was i
grew up with a particular
uh you know vocabulary that could be
offensive
but i asked i was like what do you guys
like it sounds to me like
you know there's there's a lot that we
don't understand about like what's
happening on the other side
and and i asked them i was like would
you would y'all like to see
a panel of the people who do the [ __ ] to
you
that like the people on the other side
of the dm
would you guys like to understand what
their perspective is i was stunned by
their response which was like
overwhelmingly yes
because i think this this whole dynamic
like i think absolutely we just need to
look
at the whole thing the perspectives and
experiences of women
being not shared and unknown is half of
what propagates the problem
because like the people who send you dms
they don't conceptualize of you as a
human being that's a huge [ __ ]
problem
right and so like we absolutely need to
and this kind of goes back to females
versus women we just don't
conceptualize y'all as as like humans
and as long as that that's the first
thing that needs to change
is that we're all humans and my sense in
my experience has been the more that we
start
treating people like human beings in
general whether you've [ __ ] up or you
haven't [ __ ] up whether
you're a victim or you the better off
we're gonna be
and i'm not trying to in any way shape
or form excuse the behavior of sexual
predators because like i said
you know cancer is cancer and like once
you get to that point
you know that needs to be excised but i
think if we really want to if we want to
reduce the number of cases
that piggy is getting overwhelmed with
from 250 to 25
we have to stop smoking
that's how you really beat cancer and i
don't know how much of that analogy
applies to this situation i'm not sure
right that's where like i i don't know
but like when i look at
big scale advances an ounce of
prevention
is worth a pound of cure
i mean it sounds to me like what i was
part of what i'm hearing is that we want
a better nuanced understanding
of people who become born predators and
a more nuanced understanding of people
who are victims
uh absolutely because here's starting
there because we don't know what it
looks like you don't know if you're
smoking a cigarette you know in this
dimension and we don't know like you
know you can't see somebody and say oh
they're smoking but the better we
understand what
a vic you know with nuance and empathy
what it's like to be a victim early on
and what it's like to become
someone with the predatory behavior then
the better we can help
better people can self-identify does
that sound like part of go ahead dr k
yeah i mean i was just because i think
what we need to understand is like how
tk grew up
like we absolutely need to understand
the perspective of women and victims
don't get me wrong and that's why
like you know we've spent more time i
mean i wasn't even saying any of this
until bobby asked the question i think
the most important thing for me that
come out of this discussion
is for young people to be aware of what
a predator looks like
that's what my emphasis was the one goal
that i wanted is like
if you're a 16 year old gamer male
female whatever
what are the signs that you're being
manipulated because that's
really the most important thing and then
in terms of how coaching fits in i think
that's sort of the separate issue of
like
understanding you know how do you grow
up
like that's what healthy gamer is about
we're trying to teach a generation of
people like how to grow up
like what are the chant what are the
challenges that we face
and how do we overcome them grow up
sounds good
but i think my only uh my only like
observation from all this has been like
basically um i feel the way that a lot
of these people get into the position
they are the
how the predator is born the answer for
a lot of them is that like
you know in high school or wherever
their early years were they weren't
popular you know saying like they
weren't
they didn't get you know uh women's
attention
they didn't have girlfriends whatever so
then they end up getting popular
in this realm and it's like a new start
for them you know i'm saying like
they they were never like those big
streamers who end up having like
allegations with most women because like
now they're getting attention
from women those you know the big um
the big name top players commentators
who
are like you know also getting um
issues against them from multiple women
because i feel like in their earlier
days they're like
they were nothing they weren't [ __ ] you
know what i'm saying and now they're
trying to like make up for it
and in this time or they don't know what
to do with this
power if you will uh and it gets to
their head
and i think like that's not an issue
that
we can fix after it's already happened
that's the issue that they have to
go about wanting to fix i've had this
conversation with
um like i don't want to use names but i
had this conversation with a fellow
commentator
who i felt like you know as i started to
grow up and
get less about chasing skirts and more
about like you know just
being i guess an adult or whatever or
trying to like settle down or whatever
he didn't and he was older than me and i
was like do you not notice that like
this may be an issue
because like i'm now 31 and you're
you know you're you're two three years
older than me and you're still like
acting like we're 25 26
or not even then more like 23
uh so you know i think that that
one thing that changed comes from you
but
uh if you're only changing because
someone else is pointed out to you and
you're
changing because like oh i need to
change to appear like i'm better
then you're not really changing again
like that's more so just you know
a wolf of sheep's clothing type deal i
think genuinely wanting to change
because you realizing
the error of your ways uh ends up coming
down to the person i
just don't know how to get them to reach
that you know if they don't reach it on
them on themselves i don't know how to
like egg someone on to be like yo bro
like
this is an issue and i think this is
something that you should address
yeah i mean i think tk that's a great
point and i'll i'll give you guys the
last word in a second but i think that's
exactly why
like when people come on and share their
stories
it's really easy to think that you're
not doing anything wrong if the person
on the other side of the table
isn't a real human being
right and like that's the toxicity of
the internet
right it's like does it like
they're females that's the basicity of
human
social thought sure um we use heuristics
to judge things
because it's easier and it can protect
us but in the end that those heuristics
can also
cause enormous pain and harm and that's
why i think like like
i think it's awesome that women are
coming forward because like we need to
hear your perspective like you need to
stop like you know i think it's really
powerful when
when we when we see an individual as a
person
it starts to break down
like the conceptions like when you start
to see the shades of grey and stuff like
that and that's why i really appreciate
like
piggy and juicy sharing their stories
because i think in this moment
you know for people who are watching
it's hard to just
call you like a female because like
you're a human being with a full array
of like thoughts and emotions
and feelings and experiences and and the
more
human you are and the more you share
that experience i think that's
ultimately what causes people to learn
so thank you guys all for coming on
share and share but i don't think it
should be a requirement for us to air
our trauma
just to be seen as people right
yeah so so i don't think you have to
share your trauma
but i think when we any kind of
authentic sharing it just happens to be
that we're talking about a traumatic
experience today
but i think any time you're right i
don't think you should air your trauma
to be seen as a human being
but i think part of part of what we do
as an organization is we
take the parts that have not been shared
in the past and we try to bring them to
life
because i think personally that's where
a lot of growth is that's how we try to
fight stigma
that it's okay like if you're a victim
you're not
a less normal human being you're a
valuable human being
you know you should be treated with
respect that your trauma and
and this is where you're right that you
shouldn't need to share trauma to become
a person
in my experience part of the reason that
we try to share trauma is because some
people this is really sad but
some people who experience trauma don't
feel like a human being
and and when when you share it when you
bring it out into the open
it like has less power over you
and i think what we saw today like even
listening to hugs right like so
i mean here's his experience of being
betrayed by a friend
and like that's i think what gets people
to like look at themselves
and it comes back to tk's question of
you have to want to change from the
inside
in my experience when you show yourself
when you authentically represent
yourself
to the rest of the world that's what
prompts change
but yeah it's it's with you guys anyway
closing thoughts
um i've been you know i've been kind of
mulling over what
like we can do because i mean this is
this is one of many issues i feel like
the smash community has that are now
coming up
to light i think that uh
it's a good one to start with but
there's so much we have to tackle that i
feel like it's it's
almost an impossible hill to climb you
know like there's
it goes further than just like uh the
sexual assault in
rape and and sexual misconduct just in
general
but it goes as far as to just general
like bullying
of people in in online in chats all the
time just
just people uh dehumanizing i feel like
the people that they are supposed to
love uh
because they're locked behind computer
screens and stuff like that there's like
there's so many
interesting uh dynamics that need to be
fixed
uh within the spanish community i don't
know like how we could do it but i know
that my first step
is to believe that like we can promote
change by being
said and changed by by following
by practicing what we preach by
following our own set of uh
you know code of conducts i guess that
are
morally sound and things like that the
i feel like in in smash community like
the celebrity
of things is like really like this is a
very like celebrity type community like
where people are like
huge followers of top players top
commentators and things like that
i don't really see that happen uh too
often in other uh fighting games or just
in games in general outside of like
maybe like league and like
overwatch because they're like backed by
the big companies but for a grassroot
game
to have a multiple people over 100 uh k
followers and stuff
is actually crazy to me so uh with
those big followings i feel like being
like showing
leading by example and showing that like
uh
you have changed behavior that you do
not accept in cell type behavior
uh is a great thing and that's one big
avenue
in a way that we can push for change in
the future in my opinion
and for me if something i've been
thinking about a lot is like what is
what are we explicitly preaching
you know tk because like i want to
believe too that we can model
uh this good behavior and that that'll
catch fire and that things can get a lot
better
uh and the more i think about it the
more i think that
for me what i want to preach and what i
want to practice is that anybody who
cares about the game
is you know i'll define them as a member
of the community in some capacity
and for me i feel that people who like
don't hurt other people in the community
people who
care about other people having being
safe like that's kind of the bar
we need to uh hold ourselves each and
every one of us accountable to
that's like in my mind if we can all
feel accountable for
other community members having like you
know not being in danger basically
then a lot can change but as long as we
don't feel responsible for that you know
or that there's discussion about
like that's kind of what i would love to
pull out by the root kind of ask people
if
if they care about other people having
uh being able to play melee safely
because for me i've never heard anybody
say that they don't care about that
i don't think anybody can say that with
a straight face that like oh no i don't
give a [ __ ] about other people playing
the game safely like that's not on me
right i feel like
just like i don't want to like
derail things too hard but i'm like
reading the chat and just like you know
everyone
brings up really good points like oh
this is just a worldwide issue or this
has a lot to do with like
um you know just general sexism or like
uh
abuse in general and just other other
psychological things
and like i think all those points are
really true which is why it's really
hard to have panels like these and talk
about it in a really
direct uh concise way because it is
nuanced like i'm not
like you know like dr k said
guys do grow up with a different
perspective and especially if you
grow up being an outcast in a certain
way that comes with its own problems
that like i
probably will never be able to
understand but like i think
real change comes from you take when
people in like their smaller communities
do what they can in their smaller pools
and attack issues one by one
because you can't attack everything in
the world all at once like i can't
attack how
disenfranchised people get like jailed
for unreasonable amounts of time like
that's not
my battle to fight probably and there
are there already are people fighting
for it
and like i know that what i can do is
help other women or victims or people
who have gone through the things that i
identify with personally because
i know what it's like to go through that
and i can help them best with something
that i know
and i think that goes for anybody else
in the chat or people who are viewing
like if you're watching this you're like
what can i do
and like you know i know all these other
factors go into it but how do we like
attack these things like one by one and
it's like it is a one by one process and
it just starts with like
one thing that you're passionate about
um and i think i think
to me that's like the biggest giveaway
or takeaway i'd want to
speak out to everybody
yeah she finds you so some time ago we
started a special section of our discord
for women
just because you know they do have a
different experience and even on our
discord they were getting
harassed and stuff and then you know
we got a lot of criticism for that
because a lot of people were like
where's the men's space
there's a women's space where's the
men's space and and now
everywhere and now now i have the answer
which is sorry guys
i'm a sipcock see ya
i think it's a very powerful answer
let's chat
anyways okay
sorry bobby you were like saying
something i i like don't know if i
interrupted that
no no you didn't that was my last word
was just that like if we
if we can believe that we want to create
a space where people can
play the game without being harassed
that's a low bar
and then i think that i think we could
do a much better job if we
say that we want to hold it up because
tk mentioned this earlier right
you can't take responsibility for
changing another person i can't go in
anybody else's
being and change them but we can't we
can do more than nothing
and i think for each of us if we know
where that line is which is
i hope that we can like have real homie
talks with people who are
looking like they're in a bad spot and
that we can stop
you know bad things from being born into
the world in the first place and that
would be great but
yeah i guess like having our eyes open
and knowing that we're trying to help
make the space
safe for everybody that would be really
good
that was all that i had to say and also
thanks dr k for having us here and
thanks to everybody
thank you guys for of course the
everybody else here i guess
my last thought would be uh that i
really
do hope that the smash community bounces
back
and learns from everything that has
happened i think i'm i'm hopeful and i
think that we will
at least be going in a much better
direction from here on out
and also thanks to everyone here for
everything that you do
uh using your influence to
force change or help towards change
especially
you piggy we've talked about a lot of
this stuff and you
do a crazy amount of work that i think
goes under appreciated so i will always
have your back
and i will make sure that people uh put
some respect on your name and all the
work that you do so
really appreciate what you're doing
don't make me cry on stream
my closing thoughts are please get
involved with your local scenes
please um uh ask your tos about
bands um or or help organize or
something
um if you've lost hope i understand
uh and you are not required to stay in
smash
but if you are please
it matters what you do and say i think
that's another takeaway message of all
this
um and use what you've got whether it's
cloud
quote or or just energy and time or
passion
uh or or personal experience
oh also wait i i know okay people are
viewing the smash community like we're
like
a bunch of like freaks after this
understandably so
all right there's a lot of cool people
like if you go to a tournament
at least you know you can start with any
of the like
five people here dr k if you roll
through you know you can
talk to him too like we're not most of
us aren't like this it's just
like literally like like the few
they just like all these articles aired
around and now there's just like all
this [ __ ] but smash is a really dope
game
um and like the scene is super cool and
like there's a lot of good
good sides to it too so yeah just you're
gonna throw that out
i i think it's out there because we care
we are trying to change
where um when when these things get
blown up
it's it's more because we're okay with
rooting it out even if it makes
the community look especially
crazy but i i assure you that um
it's just us working on a lot of things
publicly
and um yeah uh there are a lot of good
people in the scene so
yeah i mean jesus just as someone who's
not a member of the community
i think you guys sound awesome it sounds
very tight-knit
very caring very welcoming
like if you want to if you want to see
real [ __ ] communities like go check
out dota or wall like ho
you know it's it's yeah i mean you all
sound great
it makes me want to like attend a smash
tournament just to like check it out see
like
check it out check it out i recommend it
like seriously
no i think he's coming out soon i i
think there's a
y'all are a ringing endorsement for the
community seriously i think it's awesome
so thank you guys very much um i
unfortunately have to run because we're
a little over but normally i teach
meditation so
rain check but we'll keep the group dm
and i'll teach you guys something later
if y'all want
that offer is open um but i do
i gotta run but thank you guys very much
seriously thank you very much
thanks again likewise and uh yeah
good luck with everything and healing
and repairing
youtube all right take care bye bye
everybody
okay chat
you